The candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the governor-elect  of Ondo State , Rotimi Akeredolu has put out a tweet commenting on his victory in that election. According to Akeredolu, the people of Ondo have decided and  “ I am humbled that my people chose me. Our time to Think Anew and Act Anew has come. Thank You Ondo State.” Also in statement on his website, the governor –elect of the state said: “I thank the people of my dear state for their steadfastness. I have heard their messages throughout the campaign to all the nooks and crannies of the state. Today, you have spoken with one voice. You have walked your talk. You have voted for me as your Governor for the next four years. “Today, Change has come. I hereby make a solemn pledge that this collective mandate shall address all issues with keen determination. The welfare of our people alone shall be the directive policy of the government. “Today’s victory is a confirmation of the willingness and readiness of the people of Ondo state to change and seek a better life. I thank you for your faith and confidence in me. I thank all those, whose uncommon sacrifices, contributed in no small measure to the success of the exercise. A special show of gratitude must be extended to our security agents for their patriotic duty. “I appeal to everyone to embrace peace. The safety of lives and property of the people should be of paramount importance to all. “Let me use this opportunity to thank, profusely, the President and leader of our party, President Muhammadu Buhari, for his exemplary leadership. I thank our indefatigable and principled party chairman, Chief Odigie Oyegun and members of the National Working Committee, APC Governors and Ministers who remained faithful to the Party for their unflinching loyalty. “I shall in few months be saddled with the task of providing responsible leadership, a leadership that would take our people from poverty and stagnation to productivity and prosperity, from pains and lamentation to joy and laughter. It is the sole reason you have voted for me and by the grace of God I will not fail you.”’