 • Ogbemudia lauds Oshiomhole From Tony Osauzo, Benin President Muhammadu Buhari will pay a two-day official visit to Edo State on Monday, November 7 and Tuesday, November 8.
In a statement issued by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Julius Ihonvbere, the president will use the occasion to pay a courtesy call on the Omo n’Oba n’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II and thereafter commission projects in the state, including the new five-Star Central Hospital in Benin City; the Upper Siluko Road and the Samuel Ogbemudia College (formerly New Era College, Benin City).
He will also commission the Edo University, Iyamho and the Ugbegun-Ujiogba-Ebudin-Igueben-Ewohinmi road.
Buhari would also inspect the reclaimed Queen Ede Erosion site, in Benin City.
Also, the South South zone of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will on Sunday celebrate Oshiomhole, at a colloquium and send-off dinner in Benin City, a one week to the end of the governor’s eight-year tenure.
In a statement, the organising committee chaired by a former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Chibudom Nwuche, said Oshiomhole deserves accolades for his achievements, including construction of roads, rehabilitation and building of schools, provision of potable water, health facilities and employment generation.
Meanwhile, Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia said Oshiomhole has done well in eight years. The two-time governor of the defunct Midwest region and Bendel State, said during visit to the governor yesterday said he would spend a full day if allowed, to talk about the good records of the outgoing governor.
“I am here to thank His Excellency, Comrade Oshiomhole for taking care of me throughout his tenure. People have come to me to ask, what have I got to say about Comrade Oshiomhole and most importantly what have I got to say about his achievements, what he has done, and my answer is simple: If I spend the whole day narrating what he has done, there is no newspaper or television house that will have time for that…he has done everything that needed to be done by anybody occupying this position for eight years…
Responding, Oshiomhole said he had many things to thank Ogbemudia for, “So, if we have done anything, we had a living example in your person, and I can never thank you enough.”
The elder statesman was accompanied on the visit by his wife, Yetunde and  his son Samuel Ogbemudia II.