From Uche Usim, Abuja In line with her mandate to settle all pensioneers’ claims, the Executive Secretary of the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), Mrs Sharon Ikeazor, has sought the support of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) for payment of private sector retirees’ entitlements.
Ikeazor, who spoke at a familiarisation visit to BPE, which she described as a critical stakeholder requested for the partial payment of five years (Lump Sum) Pension buy-out involving Delta Steel, NITEL/MTEL, NICON Insurance and New Nigerian Newspapers (NNN) among others,
She also sought for outstanding liabilities of ex-workers of the defunct PHCN, NELMCO’s verification of non-core assets, payment of death benefits to defunct PHCN staff, in addition to their Superanuation Fund belonging with a view to resolving outstanding matters.
Earlier in his welcome remarks, the acting Director General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Dr. Vincent Onome Akpotaire, pledged the Bureau’s willingness to work with the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) to achieve its mandate especially on pension issues arising from privatised enterprises in the country.
He stated that as a sister organisation,”we are ready to partner and work with you to achieve your mandate”.
He cautioned the organisation against taking a hasty decision on the Five-year pension buy out scheme which ex-workers of most privatized enterprises had enjoyed but were not agitating that the exercise be reviewed, saying that any hasty decision on the matter could lead to a myriad of problems for the Directorate.
According to him, the Five-year pension buy out is a contractual agreement between management of those privatised entities and their employees under which the Bureau and PTAD have no obligation.
On the complaint by the Directorate that it was not involved in the last verification exercise of ex-workers, retirees and the next-of–kin of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN), Akpotaire said it was not deliberate but based on legacy issues especially that PTAD had not been set up at the time the Working Group (WG) for the payment of the severance package of the ex-workers was constituted by the Federal Government.
Meanwhile PTAD is continuing the next phase of verification for Civil Service Pensioners in four states in the North East geo-political zone of the country from the November 26-December 6, 2016 in Bauchi, Adamawa, Taraba and Gombe States
The verification exercise will take place in four centres as follows: Yola, to cover pensioners in Adamawa State. Jalingo, for pensioners in Taraba State. Gombe, to cover pensioners in Gombe State. Bauchi, to cover pensioners in Bauchi State
PTAD added that pensioners in Yobe and Borno States will be notified as to the dates and locations for their verification once arrangements are concluded.