 •Swears-in new CJN From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday sworn in Justice Walter Nkanu Onnoghen, as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). He is 66 years old. He hails from Cross River State
This is even as the President  charged the judiciary to contribute its quota and ensuring Nigeria gets back in line in terms of fighting corruption, revamp the economy and tackle insecurity.
While congratulating the erstwhile CJN,  Justice Mahmud Mohammed, for a successful tour of duty,the President wished Justice Onnoghen successful tenure particularly at this economic recession.
Buhari,  who said he was honoured to swear in Justice Onnogben, urged the Acting CJN to join hands with the executive  and the legislature at these trying times.
According to him, “trying time in the sense of the three identifiable problems this country is facing. physical security, the problem of economy and corruption.
“In this room contains the constitutional bodies that are responsible for bringing Nigeria back into line in terms of security and managing it efficiently while making sure that the economy is resuscitated and that security of doing business at all stages in the country is free and fair.
“I will sincerely congratulate the outgoing CJN and wish him the best of luck in his retired life and I wish the incoming CJN a successful tour of this vital constitutional body of our country,” Buhari said.
In his remarks, Justice  Onnoghen described the moment as  overwhelming, thanking God for his emergence.
While thanking Buhari for the confidence reposed on him,  he assured that the third arm of government will continue to join in the fight against corruption and address misconduct among members.
Justice Onnoghen promised to improve on his predecessor’s legacy.
“Thank you for the confidence repose on me and by the grace of God, we shall succeed,” he said.
But unlike the swearing-in of Justice Mohammed in 2014 that was witnessed by  governors, but Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, sent him a congratulatory message. Other governors were absent.
Speaking to a State House correspondents after the brief ceremony,  Justice Mohammed, while agreeing that corruption is everywhere, said the judiciary needs assistance to fish out corrupt elements so as to have clean arm of government. 