By Chinelo Obogo Concerned Edo Non-Governmental Organisations and Stakeholders, have petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), calling for the immediate investigation of Governor Adams Oshiomohole, over alleged diversion and misappropriation of funds.
In the petition signed by Dr. Osadolor Ochei and Mr. Kola Edokpayi and addressed to Acting EFCC chairman, Ibrahim Magu, the group alleged that a significant part of funds borrowed by Oshiomohole’s administration were diverted by the governor for his private use and those of his cronies.
The group also claimed it has evidence to prove that the governor allegedly diverted billions of state revenue and security votes to his personal account using proxies, while also awarding bogus inflated contracts.
“On April 5, 2012, EFCC acknowledged receipt of a petition titled: “A call to investigate Governor Adams Aliu Oshiomhole’s multi-billion naira mansion in Iyamho, Edo State,” which was signed by Matthew Edeghase Esq.
“In addition to the said earlier petition, we add that  the cost of the controversial mansion, that was designed and constructed by Verissimo (a South African Architect), is valued to be about N10 billion.
“The size and scope of the mansion completely negates all possible explanations for the source of Oshiomhole’s fund, which he had used for the construction.
“In 2014, Oshiomhole paid N23 million, via an Access Bank cheque, to Edo State Government for a parcel of land he claimed to have seized from the Federal Government at Okoro Otun Avenue, GRA Benin City.
“At present, he is erecting a multiple-floor Saddam Hussein style bunker on the land.
“Our investigation also shows that Oshiomhole bought the Guinness Guest House located along Reservation Road, GRA Benin City, soon after he was sworn in as governor in 2009.
“The property was quickly converted to the office of HANI and ASSOCIATES, a consultancy firm that has supervised all civil construction works in Edo state since 2008.
“We are reliably informed that Oshiomhole allegedly bought the building for over N100million.
“A ship-like building is currently under construction along Golf Course Road, next door to Benin Club. Mr. Hamed Useni, the managing director of Hani and Associate, Oshiomhole’s business associate, is allegedly fronting as owner. It will interest the chairman to note that this company is the sole consultancy firm for all civil works in Edo state for which he allegedly charges over 10 percent of all contracts.
“Apart from his current residence, which he built with his campaign funds in 2007 and the new Okoro Otun house, Oshiomhole is currently constructing another mansion in Abuja where he has planned to move to, after handing over on November 12, 2016…” 