 Most men wonder what love is and how to make a woman to feel loved. They fall in love, go into relationships, get married to the women their hearts beat for, learn how to treat their women, but many of them still wonder how their efforts are not being appreciated.
Many women complain that their men don’t love them because they don’t meet their innermost needs. This confusion can only be resolved if partners take time to find out how the other party wants to be loved.
But really, it takes the simple things of life to show your woman that you love her. Bear these points below in mind and watch your relationship transform into an amazing love story: Love yourself first
If you are unable to love yourself, you will be unable to love someone else. This is something that men, particularly have trouble with. You might respect yourself, think you are absolutely amazing, but loving yourself, is a bit strange.
Loving yourself as a man is the basis of a balanced personality and a great life. If you have a troubled relationship, you should look first of all at yourself. Love yourself. Tell your woman how much you love her
This means saying the words so she completely understands, and is in no doubt about it. You love her and she needs you to say this all the time. Don’t feel uncomfortable professing your love to your woman. She will feel you are not proud of being with her. The worst thing you can say is ‘you know I do.’ Just love her for who she is
Your love for your woman is not conditional, it is not based on any special qualities, you just love her. Women have qualities their men love in them, perhaps they are smart, sexy, intelligent, inspirational, funny or even rich. This shouldn’t be why you love her, you love her just because of her and nothing else.
Even though you celebrate everything that she is, she needs to know that you simply love her, no matter what. It is crucial for your woman to know this. Be yourself
While a man is an emotional being, he must not stop being the man he is. Your love should come from the power inside yourself, from your very soul. You should remain just who you are, you must be the man she met and fell in love with. She finds excitement in your masculine strength, particularly when it is laced with love. Don’t ever let her down. Don’t live in the past
Never dwell on the past and use it to judge your woman. Things go wrong and couples mess up too. Strife in relationships should be discarded once it’s over. It’s something to be buried in the past. As a man, learn the lessons and move on, ensuring that it doesn’t happen again. Count your blessings
Count the blessings you have together, the things you have achieved together, all that you are as a couple. This should be a regular part of your life together. You have to look at the amazing things you are going to do in the future.
It is advisable for men to expect a future way beyond the one that they can imagine with their women in the picture. Never make her feel left out of your future goals, plans and aspirations. Make your woman an integral part of your future, she will feel loved by this gesture. Pay attention to her
Women need attention. It is absolutely vital that men understand this. Most of the annoying habits that women exhibit are merely attempts to get their men’s attention. Take heed of them and pay attention.
Men are focused and direct and can easily lose themselves in what they are doing. This is one of the many qualities that many women love in their men, but not to the exclusion of them or their feelings. Men need to find a balance that show how important their women are to them without losing their passion for their life mission.
Men should know that love is the power house behind good relationships, it is not magic. Men love your women and show them, they will behave better towards you.