Wole Oguntola is a poet with two awards in both poetry and short stories. A satirist and an activitist, whose poetry has been published home and abroad, he is currently the HOD of Art, at Excellent Comprehensive Model International Schools, Osogbo, Osun State. The downcast and dwellers Two intolerable inhabitants Have taken oath to team together; the downcast and dwellers They settle among sharps and stings of sorrow Of ill-gotten days And, see them through cracked defence Both communing together But of different worlds As dwellers keep hoping In the twists and turns of time- Downcast keeps building the dreams in the castle of air and grandeur of melting sun They’ve come in tangle of wrists In trap of traitors And through rhythm of wars Of hope derailing land Where wailings do echo Silent range of laughter Of defence of disintegration It seems sometimes is a traversed truth Dwellers are compelled To unknown spells And of embroidered world From where meadow of mysteries Rises its voice upon the land Patriot-bearers, learn to jubilate! A time coming Waving and rejuvenating To revive the land Among sharps of sorrow And stings of ill-gotten days. I’ve carved all to this effigy. Where sane sun, too, is shooting bright. I’ve carved it to him;
Who has sanctioned prodigies in Paradise. He, whose voice has echoed through time I have chosen between two Lords; Between Henry and right to foolery. And as you know, man can not serve two masters this is a stone of believe. I have chosen him of a penstorm; of the pillar of wit and the plateau of hope. I have gone to where grain of grace formed a pyramid, and piled up liturgy of literature. Where abundance of acronyms have defined the earth. A road in Europe (to Henry Wole Akintola) To one who sojourns
On a terrain
Whose head is raised
Above the earth matrixes
Like morning sunflower
Above stodgy flood
To plateau of New Jersey
Where every good road
Meet in Europe
And where spreading grass greener
In marble of shooting sun Must is your colourful dreams
Sparking in city night
Where your noble will
Is strolling in marble mall I’ve fallen asleep
And lost in its full scenery And awakening by the clash of steels
And gently rubbed my palms
Like a too-serious praying- mantis
Demanding for acceptance
Of a life of flight. Effigy (For Henry Akubuiro)  