….Buy business equipment for 100 less privileged persons From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi It was a moment of joy and relief at the Prof. Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre, Awka, Anambra State, recently when the Caring Family Enhancement Initiative (CAFE), Anambra State government, with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), empowered 100 persons in the state. The beneficiaries who had received training were empowered with modern equipment worth millions of naira to enable them start up various vocations in goods and service delivery so that they could become self-employed and employers of labour. It was believed that the initiative would enable the beneficiaries earn a honest living and contribute to the socio-economic growth of Anambra State. According to the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Donor Agencies and UNDP partnership manager, Mrs. Nneka Onwudiwe, the 100 trained persons included 40 physically challenged men and women who had been trained in computers, tailoring, shoemaking and hair styling. The remaining 60 were youths, women and widows who received training in soap-making and confectionery. Onwudiwe stated that under the control of Mrs Obiano, CAFE had in the past two years succeeded in embarking on numerous programmes and activities that had changed lives. She noted that all the projects and programmes covered the three senatorial districts and the 179 communities of Anambra State “because Her Excellency is a firm believer in Onyeaghananwanneya (be your brother’s keeper), which is the mantra of all-inclusive governance, a hallmark of the Governor Willie Obiano administration.” Onwudiwe further explained that CAFE’s objectives and UNDP’s Sustainable Development Goals were intertwined, saying that the UN programme’s financial and technical support to Anambra State was highly recognised and appreciated. In response, the UNDP Deputy Country Director (programmes), Ms Madisa Mashalogu, who was represented by Mrs. Nnenna Olike, expressed pleasure to represent the donor agency at the event that was designed to hand over micro entrepreneurial take-off equipment for physically challenged persons and youths. The donor agency noted, however, that the commitment to achieving the SDGs at all levels of government would be key to ensuring that poverty was eradicated and inequality reduced  across all countries of the world. The wife of the governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Social Welfare, Children and Women, Lady Victoria Chikwelu, said the essence of the programme was to ensure that the beneficiaries would become self-employed and be able to employ others, adding that it was the way poverty in society would be drastically reduced. Moreover, she said, it was better to teach someone how to fish than to give him a fish. Items distributed to the beneficiaries included gas cookers, hairstyling equipment, computers, sewing machines, bench grinders and soap-making machines. 