FROM GEORGE ALUO, UYO SUPER Eagles captain, John Mikel Obi has assured that they will win the battle of Uyo as they confront Algeria Desert Foxes in a 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifier at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo today. “We all know what this match means, why we have to give every- thing. Yes, we started the race well by winning in Zambia, but we have to approach this match even more seriously. The Algerians will come with determination and they will play hard, but we will play harder. “The World Cup is the biggest stage; every player wants to be there. I am happy we have such a young and energetic team. I played at the World Cup in Brazil in 2014 but there are many of these players who have never been to the World Cup. They want to be there.” Both teams know that a victory could put them in a pole position of taking command of group B, after the Super Eagles defeated the Chipolopolo of Zambia 2-1 in Ndola to top the table with three points while Algeria were held 1-1 by Cameroon in Algiers to remain on one point apiece. Nodoubt, the encounter would give Super Eagles technical adviser, Genort Rohr another opportunity
to sink his name into the hearts of football lovers in Nigeria, having started his managerial career with the team on a winning note; first against Tanzania and then Zambia. There is no doubt that both teams parade some of the best of players in Africa. Indeed, the Super Eagles will be counting on the services of Kelechi Iheanacho, Alex Iwobi, Odion Ighalo, Mikel Obi and Victor Moses to shoul- der the goal scoring responsibility against the Algerian side. Meanwhile, Eagles Captain, Mikel John Obi has assured that they would take to the pitch deter- mined to earn all three points. The dogged playmaker insisted that the team is looking forward to nothing less than victory against the invading Fennecs. “Three points; that is what we will be playing for. We are committed and the visit of the Vice President (Professor Yemi Osin- bajo) to our training in Abuja has motivated us even more.” The rivalry between Nigeria and Algeria at senior level is one of the fiercest in African football. Nigeria beat Algeria to win her first Africa Cup of Nations in 1980; 10 years later, Algeria beat Nigeria to win her first Cup of Nations. Algeria beat Nigeria to qualify for her first FIFA World Cup – Spain 1982; Nigeria beat Algeria to qualify for her first FIFA World Cup – USA 1994. The first meeting between both teams, at the All-Africa Games that Nigeria hosted in 1973, ended 2-2. Algeria enjoyed a three –match winning streak against Nigeria between October 1981 and March 1982, but Nigeria has won the last four confrontations between both nations.