From Fred Itua, Abuja Leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), yesterday, protested the release, without trial, of five suspects accused of killing 74 year-old Christian woman in Kano, Mrs  Bridget Agbahime. She was murdered in June, 2016. The apex Christian body, said in a statement made available to newsmen, which was signed by its Director of Legal and Public Affairs,  Kwamkur Samuel, the action of Kano State Government in releasing the suspects was a disservice to the Christian community in the country. The alleged killing of the woman in June sparked nationwide outcry and raised concerns of reprisals in other parts of the country. “CAN is deeply saddened by the news of the release without trial of the five suspects accused. This is a highly provocative and insultive act on our collective sensitivities as a democratic nation if the newspapers reports are correct. “The association condemns the continuous act of killing of innocent Nigerians under the pretence of blasphemy and considers the willful absence of justice for victims of these mindless killings in Nigeria by the relevant authorities as a very serious constitutional breach and security threat to our unity and collective survival as a nation.” CAN also said non-prosecution of the alleged killers was a clear sign that “there is a scripted plan to operate another nation within the Nigerian state, thereby denying justice to those killed. The cardinal responsibility of government to protect the lives and property of the citizens is sacrosanct and must not be sacrificed on the altar of religious convenience. “As it stands today, there is no single prosecution record of any criminal who killed under the pretence of blasphemy in Nigeria despite the number of victims and incontrovertible facts showing that those killings were done in daylight and mostly by persons who live within the communities where these heinous crimes were committed.” The foremost Christian body called on Kano state government and Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris  to ensure justice is served. the Christian body said“The Association calls on the Kano State Government and the Inspector General of Police to execute justice on behalf of the blood calling out for it.  The act of condoning crass criminality in the name of blasphemy deserves greater attention and broader treatment in this era of transforming the mindset of the citizens to work toward progressive change. “As the umbrella body of Christians in Nigeria, we will not relent in our effort to ensure that justice is served on the religiously intolerant and to ensure that all Nigerians are treated equally irrespective of their faith, social status and where they come from.”