Nigeria and Leicester City star, Ahmed Musa is out of injury and will line up with his club against FC Copenhagen in today’s Champions League clash.
Leicester City has turned its debut season in the Champions League into a cakewalk and victory over FC Copenhagen would seal its place in the last 16.
A narrow win over Copenhagen a fortnight ago made Leicester one of only five group stage debutants to win their first three games and should the club make it four from four and Porto fails to beat Club Brugge it would secure top spot in Group G.
Should Leicester finish   on top of the group, it would spare the club a clash with one of the big guns in the first knockout round when the competition begins again in the new year.
Leicester will be without midfielder Nampalys Mendy (ankle) while Islam Slimani (groin) and Ahmed Musa (knock) will be assessed ahead of the game in the Parken Stadium.
Copenhagen will be hoping Federico Santander can continue a run of form that has helped him to score six goals in his last seven matches in all competitions, including two at the weekend.
Meanwhile, Musa has said he got a lot of assurances from Leicester City manager, Claudio Ranieri before he started scoring in the Premier League.
Ahmed Musa has scored in his club’s last two league games after going without a goal in his first five matches. “The manager told me ‘don’t worry, just keep working hard and it will come’ and finally it is coming,” said the 24-year-old Nigeria international, an 18 million pounds signing from Russian champions CSKA Moscow.
His equaliser at Tottenham Hotspur at the weekend earned Leicester their first away point of the season and the former Kano Pillars star said he believes the spirit that drove ‘The Foxes’ to an unlikely Premier League conquest is steadily coming back.
“From the game at Tottenham, the spirit of last season is coming back and we are working very hard for that,” he said.
“My goal (vs Tottenham) was very important, it was our first point away from home this season.”