From Isaac Anumihe Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun has received knocks over her statement that Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) should be probed for its inconsistencies in duty remittances to the federal purse.
Speaking in Warri, during a facility tour by the Board of Directors of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA),   a foremost ports operator,  Prince Olusegun Ologbese, also accused  the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) of causing the economic recession.
He said that the minister’s statement was  borne out of  her  ignorance of ports and Customs operations.
Addison had in a recent statement said there was  need to probe the Customs because the revenue expectations  by the Federal Government from the Service fell below expectation.
But Ologbese who is the Chief Executive Officer of Ogbese Maritime International, in a swift reaction said as a registered ports operator doing business with Customs, he was concerned about what happens in the ports.
“We are all stakeholders.  I believe there is no organisation that is completely corruption free. With the harsh statement from the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun,  it is  unfortunate that she does not know much about the Nigerian Customs Service and ports operations. The area she was accusing the Customs of is an area which it cannot even help it” she said.
The maritime expert asked the Minister to check the data in the ministry’s position and see how duties are remitted to the CBN through its agents at the ports.
“After collecting duties, Customs doesn’t see that money after the agent must have paid. These duties are paid in drafts to the Federal Government through the CBN. Immediately the Customs stamps  it,  you don’t have authority over it again. Even the Comptroller General of Customs cannot spend it. CBN has its representatives within the ports.  As this money is coming they are collecting it to some designated banks.
He said customs doesn’t  hold on to any money belonging to the Federal Government  for a day longer.
He, however, appreciated the Minister for her  concern that the government needs money to run the government.
Ologbese said the restrictions of about 41 items from coming to Nigeria is affecting duties that should have gone to the government.
“You don’t want goods to come to Nigeria, yet you want duties on the goods.
“Go to the ports now, they are ghost ports. They operate under 30 per cent capacity.
“A whole 41 items of goods are now on government unwanted list. If you  don’t welcome it is just like banned. They should go to their data and look at what the government was  generating in the past. If they know what is happening in the ports now they will appreciate Customs.
He lamented that the government has strangulated the necks of importers by asking them to pay exorbitant duties now from previous 10 per cent to 35 per cent.
He also accused the Central Bank of causing  the present economic hardship through so many harsh policies introduced just three months after President Muhammadu  Buhari became the president.