“My father is an idol worshipper; he used the idle to do a lot of evils in our community to the extent that he was accused of killing and poisoning some people. The villagers hated us because of his evil deeds, I was to be married to a girl from a neighboring town after my conversation to Christianity but the evil deeds of my father prevented it. This continued to the extent that I invited some prayer warriors to my village in Abia state, they came and prayed and on their way back home they had serious accident and one of the pastors died instantly. In fact, so many things happened along the line. People started avoiding my family while my father was rejoicing greatly in his evil deeds. The girl that I later proposed to marry later died mysteriously and before that happened, my father told me about it and cursed me for bringing in prayer warriors into his house. The matter became worst when I became sick mysteriously too and my father was so happy thinking I was going to die. Surprisingly to him, someone introduced me to your article in the Sun newspaper. I read it and contacted you; I did as you instructed me after ordering two bottles of you holy oil. The good news today is that I was healed after the prayer and my father became sick immediately I was healed. He then sent for me but I refused to go home to see him. He died after two weeks and so many things are already going on in my village. I’m back to my business and God is doing a new thing in my business too… I sincerely wish to thank you so much for all that the lord used you to do in my life and that of our family. God bless you. (Names and contacts withheld). “Good day sir, please I am testifying to the glory of God Almighty who gave you this oil that has worked wonders for humanity which I have greatly benefitted from. The oil together with the prayer freed us from demonic captivity. One of the wicked demon-human agents whose stock in trade is to kill, separate brothers from getting together, in fact, he hates peace among people. This same evil man is now suffering a terrible stroke from God after praying with your anointing oil. God is working out his glory in our lives. Glory be to God”. Mr. Goddy 08064313458. The spirit of man is the product of the eternal reality-God. It exists in the vast forever that is past, present and future. In the vast ocean of forever, material science becomes a fiction. Spiritual truth cannot be found in the mud of scientific experiment. Therefore all those who see my oil as a scientific substance that can be investigated materially are making phony cum spurious effort. Spirit is not matter rather spirit can possess matter for action. God is the true spirit! Today, what is happening to humanity at the present time is that he has chosen to distort his balanced circular orbit around his creator, his free will, supported by his ignorance of his unavoidable close relationship to God, and his awareness of his dependence on God, has influenced him to choose transient body sensations, body comforts and body values instead of eternal spiritual values. The universe is founded upon love as related to human survival. Our present civilization is hurting itself by building its own agonies and ills. It has become physically scientific instead of spiritually scientific. It has no living philosophy to overcome the philosophy of death which is threatening the entire world. In the midst of all these uncanny development, came the claim of many that God has forgotten humanity. This is not only defamating but a negation to the organizational structure of divinity. No one nation or tribe owns God and God cannot forget those called after his name. Nigeria is not an exemption; therefore man must strive to be spiritual. We must strive to be in union with spiritual consciousness; it is a must to all children of Adam. To be spiritual means to eschew or shun all forms of religious hypocrisy and pursue righteousness which is the basic foundation for ultimate freedom. Some top religious leaders who claim to be spiritual have neglected the true principles of spirituality thus they have failed to advance as a result of double ignorance that has held them sway. Thus they have continued to behave like the man who consequently admonished his son to dress like a lawyer, behave like a priest, but always think like a thief if he wishes or desires to survive in this world. Following such strange admonition from an evil father, the true colour or identity of his son could not be decoded easily. In dressing like a lawyer his true colour would be hidden, in behaving like a priest he becomes the worst religious hypocrite in the ministry of soul winning. However, in thinking like a thief, there lies his original colour and identity. The Bible says, “As a man thinks so he is” Proverbs 23:7. The thinking of man cannot be separated from his being and understanding of same. Those men and women, who think they can dress like lawyers, behave like priests, while thinking like thieves in the ministry are the ones who hold a form of godliness but denying the power thereof. We have been warned to flee from them because they have no good spiritual lesions to teach humanity hence they will always produce their kind in the vineyard as I nod to the Biblical assertion that “those who make them are like them” Ps.115:8. Therefore those who follow them are like them as like attracts like; o yes, no one can ignore the spiritual philosophy of homogeneity. In my voyage through Christian Spirituality, I hitherto discovered that when you are in tune with the Holy Spirit, you experience direct knowledge. Direct knowledge from the spirit of God is very comprehensive. When the Holy Spirit wants to educate you, He may use the dream world. Yes, God may use the dream world to teach you things about yourself and other higher spiritual things about the physical world. You may as well comprehend your own being in a more different way that may not be native or common to our credo hence the way between God and man is an individual affair. When one is reading a book, one is experiencing direct knowledge that may or may not lead to comprehension. The truth is that spiritual comprehension exists whether or not we have the words or even the thoughts to express it. 