By Ngozi Uwujare The Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Ogun State Police Command, has clamped down on over 90 suspected armed robbers, kidnappers and recovered 45 arms and ammunition in their hideouts across the state. The Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmed Iliyasu, told Daily Sun in Abeokuta that the command had ethic moments in arresting the suspects. He said the SARS commander, Supol Uba Adam, with his operatives swung into action and arrested two suspects, Bafona and Tochukwu who specialised in snatching exotic cars: “They also arrested over five suspected armed robbers terrorizing residents of Sagamu and its environs. Some arms and ammunition were recovered from them. “SARS operatives arrested another gang of suspected armed robbers who had been disturbing Sotunbo, via Ogijo and another gang of 15 suspects operating in Irolu via Ogijo. Three pump action guns, four single barrel guns, three cut-to-size locally made guns, two revolver pistols, double barrel gun and three packets of life cartridges were recovered. The operatives also busted the hideout of the hoodlums in Ibefun via Ijebu-Ode. “The Anti-Kidnapping Squad (AKS), arrested three suspected kidnappers who abducted one Felicia along Odolapo Road, Ijebu-Ife. The victim was rescued and the suspects charged to court. Also, a suspect, Ajomamera, who was on the run was apprehended. “The AKS arrested two suspected kidnappers who were rearing cows at Sanka, when six men appeared from the bush and kidnapped a victim. The case was reported at Imeko Division. Those nabbed are Muhammed and Adamu. “The SARS operatives and Agbara Division arrested three suspected armed robbers identified as Bakare, Bello and Yusuf who attacked two victims Rafiu and Celestine who wanted to deposit N6million at a bank. The suspects collected N2million from them. They are in state CID under investigation. “Suspects who specialised in shop-breaking in Ijebu-Ode and its environs were arrested. The suspects are Abiodun, Lasisi, Nnaji and Alimi. They recovered pumb action gun, one pistol and 10 live cartridges. “Two suspects who allegedly robed one Semiu of N2.5million at gun point at Totoro Junction, Abeokuta, were arrested and the money recovered by SARS operatives. The suspects are Nwandike and Chinenye. Two other suspects, Chukwu and Obiuna were arrested at Ogbere Junction with 16 live cartridges. 