GODWIN TSA, Abuja
The Federal Government said on Tuesday  the leader of the Shi’ite Islamic sect, Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky, is currently placed under protective custody and not detention as been claimed by him.
The Shi’ite leader had filed a N2bn suit against the Federal Government over his unlawful detention and breach of his fundamental human right.
However, the matter was yesterday adjourned by Justice Gabriel Kolawole of the Abuja division of the Federal High Court.
Speaking to newsmen after the court session, counsel to the Federal government, Tijani Gazali explained that El-Zakzaky is a vulnerable person and as such is been held under protective custody. ‎Before he adjourned the matter, Justice Kolawole fixed the matter for hearing after he ordered service of the relevant court processes on the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN. Aside the AGF, other respondents in the suit are the Department of State Services, DSS, and the Nigerian Police Force. When the matter was called up, counsel to the applicant, Festus Okoye told Justice Kolawole that all the respondents have been duly served with the processes in relation to the matter, including hearing notice of the day’s sitting.
He said while the first and third respondents in the suit have replied the second respondent is yet to reply.
Counsel to the 1st and 3rd respondents however told the court that a motion seeking for an extension of time dated 8th june was filed on the 9th of june, along with their counter affidavit and written addresses.
Responding, Okoye while stating that they are not in objection to the request of time, however told the court, that there are issues contained in the counter affidavit that needed clarification. He subsequently sought for an adjournment.
In a brief ruling, Justice Kolawole granted the motion as prayed by the applicant and adjourned the matter till 13 July for hearing of the applicant suit.
However briefing newsmen outside the courtroom, counsel to El-Zakzaky disclosed that one of the issue they needed time to resolve is the claim by the Department of State Security Services that their client is been held in custody willingly.
“We have filed our application asking for the release of our client who is been held by the DSS. As at the last adjournment none of the respondents filed any process, but yesterday the DSS and AGF responded and in their counter affidavit they claimed to be holding our client in protective custody for his own benefit.
These are some of the things we want to find out because at our last meeting, he never said he is been held in protective custody for his own benefit”, Okoye said.
Responding to question whether El-Zakzaky consented to his been held in protective custody having asked the court for his release, Gazali maintained that one does not need to ask for such protection, adding that it is the duty of the state to protect.
“Once you are vulnerable the state would protect you. El-Zakzaky is not in detention. He is under protective custody and is well taken care of where he is”, Gazali said. In the substantive suit filed by human right activist, Femi Falana (SAN), the Shi’ite leader who has been in detention since December 14, 2015, applied for the enforcement of his fundamental rights to life, personal liberty, dignity of human person, right to private and family life and private property. The suit marked FHC/CS/128/2016, was predicated on sections 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40, 41 and 46 (1) & (2) of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, as well as on Articles 4, 5, 6, 11 and 12(1) of the African Charter on Human & Peoples Rights (Ratification and Enforcement) Act, LFN, 2010. The court is among other things, prayed to declare that “the detention of the applicant at Abuja by the respondents since December 14, 2015, is illegal and unconstitutional as it violates his fundamental rights to personal liberty as enshrined in section 35 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, and Article 6 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights (Ratification and Enforcement) Act (CAP A10), Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004”. Falana is contending that the continued detention of his client without being charged before a competent court is in violation of his right to fair hearing as enshrined in section 36 of the 1999 Constitution, as amended. He said that his client had since lost one of his eye owing to the treatment meted out to him by security agents acting on behalf of the federal government, adding that the detained Sh’ite leader was denied access to his medical doctors, family members and relatives. Insisting that his client’s rights to health and association as enshrined in Article 16 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights was violated, Falana wants the court to declare that detention of the applicant “without access to his family and friends was not only illegal but in violation of his rights to freedom of association as enshrined in section 40 of the Constitution”. Likewise, he is praying the court for, “An order directing the immediate and unconditional release of the applicant from the custody of the 1st and 2nd respondents. “An order restraining the respondents from further violating the applicants fundamental rights in any manner whatsoever and howsoever without lawful justification. As well as, “An order compelling the respondents, jointly and severally to pay the applicant the sum of N2billion as general and aggravated damages for the illegal violation of his fundamental rights to personal liberty, dignity of person, fair hearing, health, freedom of movement an freedom of association”. It will be recalled that Zakzaky’s arrest and detention followed a violent clash that occurred at Zaria in Kaduna State on December 14, 2015, between his followers and detachments of the Nigerian Army accompanying the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General TY Buratai. The clash had resulted in loss of lives of members of the Shi’ite sect, among whom included the applicant’s wife and son. 