•Gov wins Zik Prize for Leadership From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State has earmarked N3.5 billion for special projects in 177 communities in the state.
Each of the 177 communities will benefit at least N20 million from the special development project.
Obiano disclosed this in Okija, in Ihiala Local Government when he commissioned an ultra-modern school hall built for Union Primary School, also in Okija, by Dr. Paul Erinne.
The governor explained that the mass development initiative was aimed at ensuring that no community in the state was left behind in the development agenda of his administration despite the economic crunch.
He described communities’ partnership with the government as critical in repositioning the state’s education sector and commended sponsor of the building project, Dr. Erinne for his willingness to invest his wealth in advancing the cause of citizens of the community.
Obiano commended the people of Okija for their passion towards the development of their community and assured that the state government will continue to support their self-help efforts.
Commissioner for Education, Prof Kate Omenugha, in her speech at the occasion, noted that through the project, Okija community has blazed the trail in community collaboration with government in uplifting the standard of education in the state.
She attributed the people’s willingness to partner the administration across various sectors to the quality leadership which Governor Obiano has shown.
Earlier, in his address, Dr. Erinne said through the project and many others, he intended to give back to the society that made him.
Also speaking, a community leader in the area, Chief Ernest Obiejesi thanked Obiano for his continued support for the self-development of the community; adding that through the gesture, the governor has exhibited genuine concern for the welfare of Ndi Okija.
Meanwhile, Obiano has won the 2015  Zik Prize for Leadership. He is first in a list of three governors which includes Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State and Ibikunle Amosun who also emerged winners in the Good Governance category of the prize.
Interestingly, while Obiano is being honoured for two years of sterling performance, his co-winners are both well into their second terms in office having served their first terms of four years each.
The prize, which is administered by Lagos-based Public Policy Research and Analysis Centre (PPRAC), will be handed to the winners in a colourful ceremony being planned for Sunday, June 19, 2016 in Lagos.
In a personal letter dated June, 6, 2016 conveying the offer to Obiano, chairman of PPRAC, Prof. Jubril Aminu, the Centre expressed optimism that the governor would attend the prize-giving ceremony which will hold at the Civic Centre in person to receive the honour.
In their respective remarks, the Principal of the School, Mrs Calista Ngobili and a representative of Umuohi village where the school is located, Dr Ifeanyi Uchendu thanked Erinne for investing in the future of the children of the area and appealed to others to emulate him. 