The Nigerian Football Federation, NFF, on Saturday, announced the death of its Technical Director, Shuaibu Amodu. Shuaibu was coach of the Super Eagles for four consecutive times. He died in his sleep after complaining of chest pains on Friday night. He was aged 58. The death of the NFF Technical Director came three days after the death of former Super Eagles captain and coach, Stephen Keshi.  Daily Sun  captures  key things you need to know about Amodu. -Amodu was born 18 April, 1958 in Edo State. -Amodu, a striker, played for Dumez and Niger Tornadoes. His playing career ended after he broke his leg. Coaching career -Amodu has managed a number of club sides in the past both in Nigeria and overseas. They include: Shooting Stars, BCC Lions, El Kanemi Warriors, Sharks F.C and Orlando Pirates of South Africa. -He first managed the Nigerian national team from April 2001 to February 2002, where he led Nigeria to the AFCON bronze medal at Mali 2002. He was later dismissed after the AFCON tournament. -Amodu later stated that his dismissal was “unfair”, and also said that, a month later, he had yet to receive a formal letter confirming his dismissal. -He was appointed Head Coach of the Nigerian national side in April 2008, and was sacked on 6 February 2010 despite reaching third place with the national side in the 2010 African Cup of Nations in Angola. -He was demoted to serve as the coach of the Nigerian home-based Eagles. -Amodu was appointed technical director of Nigeria’s national teams in May 2013. -He was named Technical Director of Bendel Insurance F.C in November 2013. -He was re-appointed Nigeria manager in October 2014, replacing Stephen Keshi. It was his fourth spell in charge of the country. -Keshi returned to the role two weeks later but was fired in July 2015 and Amodu took over the Eagles again temporarily. -He was replaced by Sunday Oliseh on a permanent basis later that month. -Following the resignation of Sunday Oliseh, the NFF again, appointed Amodu as the new interim coach of the national team. The new coaching crew alongside Amodu was made up of Salisu Ibrahim, Alloy Agu, Imama Amakapabo and Kennedy Boboye. -Amodu’s other accomplishments include Nigerian FA Cup titles with BCC Lions of Gboko and El Kanemi Warriors on multiple occasions.  