By Temilade Aruya THE bedrock of every society is the family. As the pri­mary unit of socialization upon which is laid the foun­dation for a good society, the family plays a vital role in building a healthy society. It is, therefore, quite unam­biguous that any threat to the family unit is a clear-cut threat to the society. Recent onslaught on this enormous societal pillar, in form of domestic violence is, therefore, a serious threat to the society which calls for urgent at­tention and action from all relevant stakeholders. That the marriage institution is currently under severe pressure is not in doubt, as we now witness unimaginable violence hitherto seen only in movies among couples. The re­cent alleged murder of a thirty-six year old woman by her fifty-one year old husband over allegation of infidelity is still very fresh in the news. This is coming on the heels of the brutal killing of a young woman in Ilorin, Kwara state, by her admirer for refusing to marry him. As if that was not enough, barely three months ago, Nigerians were shocked with the news of a how a young man in Ibadan was killed by the wife who slit his throat. Perhaps, the most disgusting acts of family desecration in our society , today, involves the gory tale of one Lekan Shonde who allegedly killed his wife, Ronke, in Egbeda, Lagos, for purported­ly provoking him by describing intensely how her lover slept with her in a hotel in Abuja.It is distressing to discover that the home is no longer a safe and peaceful haven for children as fathers and mothers now engage in bitter and deadly squabbles. In Lagos State, for instance, it is rather dreadful to note that the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation received over 382 mails on domestic violence and over 553 dis­tress calls in recent times. This is how serious the issue of domestic violence has suddenly become in our society. According to experts, domestic violence, also known as domestic abuse, spou­sal abuse, battery, family violence, and intimate partner violence, is a pattern of abusive behav­iors by one partner against another in an intimate relationship such as marriage, dating, family, or cohabitation. Domestic violence and abuse is not limited to obvious physical violence. It can also mean endangerment, criminal coercion, kidnap­ping, unlawful imprisonment, trespassing, ha­rassment, and stalking to gain or maintain power and control over another intimate partner. Domestic violence is a global phenomenon. It is not limited to Nigeria. It occurs across the world, in various cultures, and affects people ir­respective of their economic status. According to one study, the percentages of women who have reported being physically abused by an intimate partner vary from 69% to 10% depending on the country. In Nigeria, spousal abuse has become a scourge and there is a report that 50% of our women have been battered by their husbands at one time or the other and unbelievably, more educated women (65%) are in this terrible situ­ation as compared with their low income coun­terparts (55%). The effects of domestic violence on couples are far- reaching as it affects not only the children but the entire society in the long run. The effects on children are most devastat­ing as they exhibit fear, anxiety, feeling unsafe, anxiety to please, withdrawal syndrome, depres­sion, shame, guilt, anger, sleep disturbance and a whole lot more. According to a recent research, 48% of Nigeri­an women have experienced physical violence in one way or the other. This is a significant number in a country of almost 160 million people where almost half are women. This has serious implica­tion for the marriage institution, the children who are most vulnerable and the society at large. The implication of this is not lost on the La­gos State Government as the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation recently came up with different programmes to deal with the incidence of domestic violence in the state and hopefully put an end to it. The Ministry, which has successfully intervened in over 234 cases of domestic violence of late, has equally organised various enlightenment programmes as well as ensured the rehabilitation and integration of sur­vivors. Additionally, it has empowered 164 women in vocational and skill acquisition programmes while 100 counselors in public secondary schools were trained in conjunction with the United Na­tions Population Fund in guidance and counsel­ling courses. This has greatly impacted the vic­tims in a positive way as it serves as a morale booster to their dampened spirits..This is quite significant because in our clime, many victims of domestic violence usually lack the courage to seek legal redress for the violations of their rights due to lack of positive response from the society. Domestic violence is so entrenched in our society that even the victims condone such violations of their rights as some perceive it as sign of love and the socio-religious belief that a broken marriage or relationship is a mark of failure in life. Due to poverty and economic dependence on men, many female victims may also choose to suffer in silence for fear of losing the economic support of the male perpetrator. nAruya writes from Lagos. 