From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The shortfall of N790 million in the subvention from the Federal Government to the University of Ibadan has pitched the staff unions in the institution against the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Idowu Olayinka.
The indication emerged yesterday when the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) kicked against pay cut as a result of the shortfall.
At an interactive session with newsmen yesterday, the vice chancellor, Olayinka, lamented that the  N790 million cumulative shortfall from the Federal Government was responsible for the pay cut.
SSANU Chairman in UI, Mr. Akinremi Olawale, who addressed a congress at the car park opposite UI senate building yesterday, vowed that the union would not take anything less than full payment of all their salaries in the last five months.
Also, ASUU chairman in UI, Dr. Ayodeji Omole, said academic staff would no longer accept pay cut based on the shortfall, adding that their salaries must be paid in full and all deductions must be remitted as appropriate.
When asked if they would resort to strike if their demand was not met, Omole said the congress of the union would decide on the next course of action if the management failed to the demand.
But the VC said the last subvention released to the university for May could only take care of 92 percent of the staff, adding that the management has also been working assiduously to ensure that life is meaningful for the workers. The university, he said, has been having a shortfall of N96 million every month.
He stated that the institution needs N878 million for salary every month, but the subvention to the university has been dwindling since December 2015, adding that in December 2015, a subvention of N663 million was released and for January 2016, a total of N782 million was released, unlike before when N932 million was released monthly to the institution.
Olayinka further said leaders of various staff unions in the university were invited to a meeting last week Thursday in order to brief them about the latest N782 million subvention, saying: “The money can only pay 92 percent of the salaries. The meeting, held in the evening, lasted for about three hours. The workers rejected it and wanted everything in full.
Fielding questions on the re-opening of the institution that was closed by the authorities five weeks ago, Olayinka said the closure order has not been vacated, hence, the students should still stay at home.