From Murphy Ganagana, Jos Four persons have been confirmed dead as riots erupted on Monday at Pandogari, Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State, over an alleged blasphemous publication against Prophet Mohammed on the social media.
Methodus Emmanuel Ugwuanyi, a Christian, suspected to have authored the offending publication was the first casualty as he was reportedly killed by some aggrieved Muslim youths in the late hours of Sunday.
An alleged molestation and unprofessional conduct by soldiers deployed in the community to quell the uprising was said to have fuelled the situation as the protesters reportedly went berserk and set ablaze a Foursquare Gospel Church building in the community. They also allegedly vandalised and looted shops, belonging to non-indigenes, especially, the Igbos.
Consequently, a middle aged woman, Ladidi Abubakar, was said to have been killed as security personnel fired gunshots sporadically in a bid to curtail the rampage.
Similarly, one Nalami Dantata was also said to have died after being knocked down by a vehicle as the driver tried to escape from the scene.
The development reportedly angered the rioters, who descended on an operative of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Usman Sani, and hacked him to death.
Sources said three other persons whose identities could not be ascertained at press time, sustained  injuries, and are currently receiving treatment in an,m  undisclosed hospitals.
Confirming the incident, Niger State police spokesman, ASP Bala Elkana, said 32 suspects have been arrested, as the police take control of the situation.
“The Commissioner of Police, Abubakar Marafa visited the scene on Monday and met with all the stakeholders including traditional rulers and religious leaders.
Normalcy has returned to the community and there is heavy security presence there as we speak,” he told Daily Sun yesterday.
Meanwhile, the 31 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Minna, Tuesday said the religious violence had been brought under control by the combine efforts of security agencies in the state.
Major Njideka Agwu, the Assistant Director, Army Public Relations Officer (APRO), who made this known to newsmen in Minna, said the army, police and the NSCDC had restored peace in the area.
“The army and other security agencies have commenced confidence building patrols in all the nooks and crannies of the area towards restoring peace.
“As part of measures to diffuse tension and ensure lasting peace in the town, the military is working with the local government council authorities and community leaders, including the Kagara Emirate Council, to pacify all aggrieved parties and build on the peace so far established,’’ she said.
Agwu said that the army would continue with its non-violent approach to maintaining peace in the area.
She, however, warned that the army would deal with any person attempting to promote violence in the community. 