From Okey Sampson, Aba Traders especially those at Ariaria International Market, Aba, Abia State are counting their losses as a result of yesterday’s early morning downpour which left many shops in the market submerged and goods worth millions of naira destroyed in the resultant flooding.
The areas mostly affected were the A line; which serves as the prime spot of the market, the drugs section and the adjourning areas where goods worth millions of naira were said to have been damaged.
Some of the traders whose goods were destroyed said they arrived the market as early as 8am by which time their shops were already flooded with some of their goods submerged in the flood.
However, other traders who had their goods in bottles and other waterproof containers were lucky to have saved their goods from the rampaging flood.
Some of the traders described their losses as colossal as they claimed to have lost goods worth millions of naira and feared that they could lose more with another heavy rain.
The chairman of Abia Market Development Committee (AMDC), Mr. Solomon Nwaigwe could not be reached for comments, but a member of the committee who would not want his name in print attributed the incessant flooding in parts of the market to illegal structures some of which he said were built on waterways. He promised that his committee was going to correct this to avoid further flooding in the market. Biafra:  MASSOB can’t be hijacked –Madu From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha Leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Uchenna Madu yesterday said the movement could never be bought or hijacked by political elements.
Madu stated that the group could not compromise or sabotage the struggle for emancipation  and survival of its people.
The MASSOB leader made the declaration while reacting to rumours making the rounds that Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano had induced MASSOB with monetary leverage to compromise the activities and the struggle for Biafra actualisation.
According to him: “The reformed MASSOB can never be bought or hijacked by political elements, we cannot compromise or sabotage the struggle for emancipation and survival of our people.
“MASSOB warns the government of Anambra State to stop dragging the name of MASSOB or Biafra to the mud, we have not sent anybody or group of people to represent MASSOB in any capacity in their dealings with pro-Biafra groups,” he stated.
“Anybody or group of people who claim to represent or sent by MASSOB in any capacity in dealings with Anambra State  government is fake including some staffs of Anambra state Government.
“In as much as MASSOB is willing to partner or work with other Igbo groups, state governments and individuals, it must be for Igbo and Biafra interest not compromising the ultimate hope of Ndigbo. MASSOB will continue to represent the genuine interest of Ndigbo with all selflessness, total commitment and consistency,” he restated.
MASSOB also urged Obiano to harken to the cries of the people of Okpoko community, the most populous avenue of Onitsha on the deplorable state of the roads, mostly Ede road junction by Obodoukwu Road, Ogbuagu – Ik Onuoha Street, Amazu Road, Mgbemena Street, Nwaziki Street in Awada layout, Ziks Avenue by Mbanefo, Iboku Street and Emodi Street in Onitsha etc.
He, however, noted that these roads need urgent attention of the state government, saying the environmental hazardous pollution in Okpoko was most dangerous to people’s health.  