(Wole Balogun, ADO-EKITI) National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), has called on the Ekiti State Governor Mr Ayodele Fayose to pay the salaries and other entitlements owed the striking civil servants in the state. The student body, while dissociating itself from the protest staged by concerned trade unions in the state on Tuesday said ” He who works deserve a pay, as such the Civil servants in Ekiti state should not be deprived of their entitlements”. NANS, Ekiti axis, lamented that Nigerian students are facing serious hardship due to the inability of the state government to pay the salariy arrears owed their parents. A statement by its chairman, Comrade Cosmas Awopeju in Ado Ekiti, the body challenged the governor to present evidence that he has not received salaries and security vote in the last five months. Awoppeju said,” We all share understanding with the governor over the little amount coming to the state as federal allocation, but we refused to agree with the governor that five months allocation was not enough to pay atleast one or two months salaries of workers in the state “The parents have been finding it difficult to cater for the upkeep of their wards in the face of the present economic hardship in the country. The apex student body in the state frown at the anti masses policies of Mr Governor and implore him to do the needful. “We use this medium to re-echo our voice against the unnecessary taxes the governor impose on pupils in the state. The governor also in his discretion reduced the subvention to the state-owned tertiary institutions and ordered them to source for Internally generated revenues which has made the tuition fee unbearable to the students”. He however, urged the governor to give appropriate attention to every of the issues in the best interest of the state. ‘For avoidance of doubt, FESSU represents the interest of only students who are of Ekiti indigene while NANS is the umbrella body of all students tertiary institutions in the state.” 