BY GEORGE ALUO  Top Nigerian football buffs are in tears over the sudden death today of former Super Eagles manager, Stephen Okechukwu Keshi. Keshi, 54 died in Benin early Wednesday morning after complaining of pains on his leg. A family member disclosed to Daily Sunsports that the late soccer legend died before he got to a private hospital in Benin that is just about five minutes drive from his residence. “After complaining of pains in his leg, we got somebody to massage it. When the pains failed to subside we then decided to go to hospital, Faith Clinic which is just five minutes drive from the residence, but before we got to the hospital he gave up,” the family member disclosed. Daily Sunsports further gathered that the Keshi had also complained of having problems with his breath and confirmed that much to his former Beninoise assistant and close pal Vallerie Hendonou. Hendonou who himself is bereaved having lost his wife last weekend in Cotonou, is said to have advised Keshi to go for medical check up. Reactions: Former Secretary General of NFF, Dr Tijani Yusuf said he has been in tears since the news of Keshi’s death broke. “I was the first to employ him when I was NFF scribe. When I called him, he said he would gladly want to serve the country and in a matter of days he arrived the country and started work as Amodu Shuaibu’s assistant. He was a great guy. He was patriotic and hardworking. We have lost a legend. I m in pains and I can’t hold back tears,” were Tijani,s words. Former board member of NFF and veteran journalist Fan Ndubuoke said Keshi’s death is a bid loss not just for Nigerian but African football. ” Like him or hate him, Keshi was a legend. His death is a big loss for Nigerian and African football. I just can’t believe he is no more.” Chairman technical committee of NFF , Chris Green simply said he is speechless . “I’m speechless. I need time to put myself together.This is tragic,” he said . Mike Idoko chairman of Lobi Stars who was writhing in pains said Nigeria has lost a soccer icon, even as he charged sportsmen to get closer to God. “With what is happening now, we must all seek the face of God. Keshi’s death is painful, I pray God grant him eternal rest,” Idoko stated.