A photo journalist with The Sun, Ayodele Ojo, has emerged winner of the Best Photo Story of the Year in the Season 4 of the Promasidor Quill Awards for journalists. He had earlier won the second edition of the award, which started in 2012. The award, held in Lagos a few weeks ago, saw Ojo’s entry: Suffering and Smiling, clinching the winning position. Presenting the award to Ojo, at the corporate head office of International TPT, a public relations company, Head, Legal and Corporate Communication, Mr. Andrew Enahoro, said the award was aimed at promoting excellence in journalism. According to him, all   the awardees were nominated through painstaking process and they were adjudged winners by a group of reputable panelists led by Ambassador Patrick Dele Cole, and other media professionals. “Ojo’ s entry for the award was among the 400 entries submitted for the 2016 Promasidor Quill award. The entry entitled, ‘Suffering and Smiling’ was adjudged the best in the photo story categories. Therefore, the company has decided to reward his effort as the best professional photo journalist for this year’s edition” In his remarks, Ojo thanked the organisers of the event and dedicated the award to the management and staff of The Sun Publishing Limited, “I’m delighted to win the award for the second time in three years. It is an honour for me and a reward for excellence. I dedicate the award to the management and staff of The Sun Newspapers for giving me the opportunity and providing the platform for me to express my talent,” he said Managing Director of TPT international, Mr. Charles Igbinedion, said the award focuses and recognises journalists that have done wonderfully well in their profession, particularly, in the seven categories slated for the awards. Other award categories, according to Igbinedion, include: Best report in nutrition, CSR and industry, on children, online report and the best features writer of the year. “This year’s edition was interesting and we also hope to continually reward excellence in subsequent editions,” he said. Earlier at the formal award presentation a few weeks ago, Managing Director, Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Olivier Thiry, organisers of the Promasidor Quill awards, said no reward could adequately compensate the effort of journalists in educating the public. “Based on the realisation of the important role of the media in our economy, the management of Promasidor Nigeria, in 2012, conceptualised Promasidor Quill Awards with the ultimate goal of assessing, recognising and rewarding excellence for outstanding journalistic work.”