The Super Eagles have been advised to make Nigeria proud as they prepare for the 2018 FIFA African qualifiers in Russia.
In a press statement yesterday, national team sponsor, Globacom said: “The draw has been concluded and preparation towards a successful campaign in Group B must begin in earnest,”
According to Globacom: “All Nigerians must come together to support the Super Eagles to triumph over their opponents in Group B to ensure the nation’s qualification for its 6th World Cup.
“Apart from winning all home matches and amassing the nine points available, the Eagles’ technical crew must work towards picking points on the road to ensure that Nigeria tops the group that had been referred to as ‘ group of death,” the leading data network added.
The telecommunication company said the Eagles could not afford to disappoint Nigerians again after the pain of missing out in next year’s African Cup of Nations in Gabon.
In the draw, which was conducted on Friday, Nigeria’s Super Eagles were grouped alongside Algeria, Cameroon and Zambia national sides in Group B.
Nigeria was picked from pot two, while Algeria, Cameroon and Zambia were picked from pots 1, 3 and 4 respectively.
Group A will feature Tunisia, Libya, Congo DR and Guinea, while Gabon, Mali, Ivory Coast and Morocco will lock horns in Group C.
In Group D Senegal will face the trio of South Africa, Burkina Faso and Cape Verde for the group’s ticket, while Ghana, Egypt, Congo and Uganda will trade tackles in group E.
The Super Eagles qualified for the World Cup finals for the first time in 1994 in the United States, where they were eliminated in the second round by Italy.
They also qualified for the 1998 FIFA World Cup in France and the 2014 edition in Brazil, where they also reached the second round at the two tournaments.
However, in the 2002 and 2010 World Cups in Japan -Korea and South Africa, the team failed to progress past the group stages.
“We wish the Super Eagles the very best,” the statement concluded.
Globacom is the official telecommunications partner of the Nigerian Football Federation and the major sponsor of the Nigeria’s national teams.