From: TONY JOHN, Port Harcourt FORMER Senate President, Senator David Mark, has commended Riv­ers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, for being an agent of genuine development for the people of the state. This is as Governor Wike de­clared that the PDP would con­tinue to solve the developmental challenges of the people by keep­ing campaign promises made to the people. Commissioning the eight-kilo­metre Ozuoba-Ogbogoro-Rumuol­umeni road in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area on Saturday, the former Senate President de­scribed the governor as agent of “true change” who has improved the living condition of the people by his deliv­ery of democracy dividends. Senator Mark said that Gover­nor Wike has used his mandate to positively change the developmental outlook of Rivers State, keeping his promises, instead of giving excuses for failure. Speaking on the project delivery of Governor Wike , Senator Mark said : “so far, he has governed well , now people are beginning to see the results of the promises that he made. “He is not only keeping his prom­ises , he also has the welfare of the people at heart. That is what gover­nance is all about. Those who voted him are reaping the benefits of democ­racy. “Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike is a man of action who keeps to his words and promises. I want to thank you for keeping to your promises.’ He said all the PDP gover­nors have kept their promises, while those who promised change to Nige­rians have failed to deliver. “I am a great advocate of change. Because what brought APC to power is change. Now we have seen that change has not taken place. We have to change that change now. Why we must change the change is because those who called for change are not keeping their prom­ise”, Senator Mark said. In his address, Gover­nor Wike said that in his projects delivery framework, he was not con­cerned about who awarded the proj­ect, but its impact on the lives of the people. He said: “For us, as PDP, we knew there were problems before we made pledges. That is why we are re­solving the problems that we met on ground . It does not matter the party you belong, we shall continue to de­liver democracy dividends to all Riv­ers people “ He said that as a governor he would always work in line with the cam­paign promises he made , because the people have always supported him. “I pleaded with you to give me your mandate when I came here to campaign. Today, I am back to ful­fill that pledge because you gave me the opportunity to serve”, the gov­ernor said. Wike reiterated his com­mitment to flush out cultists from the state, noting that security agen­cies have been given the free hand to deal decisively with cultists. He said: “Since they have said that I will not sleep, they will not sleep. Any­one who is arrested, will be dealt with in line with the tenets of the law. Whether you belong to the PDP or APC, you will not be spared if you are a cultist”. Works Commissioner, Bathuel Ihe­anyichukwu said the road was award­ed by the previous administration, but abandoned at 30percent completion stage. He said the road was impass­able before Governor Wike recon­structed it and revived   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 