From Judex Okoro, Calabar The Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) has called on the Federal Government to tackle headlong the menace of oil theft and spillage in the Niger Delta region to curtail its negative effects on the economy.
The  President and  Chairman, Council of ANAN, Mr. Anthony Chukwuemeka Nzom, who made the call during the 3rd Session of 2016 Mandatory Continuing Professional Development (MCPD) Programme held in Calabar recently, said it was high time the Federal Government paid urgent attention to environmental concerns of oil producing areas.
Nzom said, “The Federal Government efforts at revamping the oil sector is a positive indicator for the economy as evidenced in the revitalisation of some refineries in the country for the production of oil a recent reform agenda being the commencement of oil exploration at Aje oil field in Lagos State.
“We enjoin the government to further curtail issues bordering on oil bunkering, damage of oil pipelines, oil spillage and illegal oil exportation. Environmental concerns in oil producing areas should be given attention,” he said. On Federal Government deregulating the downstream sector of the petroleum industry, he described it as a welcome development, saying it would reduce pressure on the naira and foreign reserves as well as attract private sector investments.
In his speech, the Governor of Cross River State, Prof. Ben Ayade, urged the association to uphold its quintessential standard that it has rigorously set over time.
Ayade, represented by the Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Asuquo Ekpeyong, said the current economic trend and emerging realities have made it more imperative to have men of integrity in the system.
‘’You must imbibe ethics and values of your profession at every time to ensure that the integrity of members are upheld by discharging your duties with discipline,’’ he said. Old Mutual rallies support for NCRIB on professionalism By Zika Bobby In a renewed effort to strengthen professionalism and deepen awareness among stakeholders in the insurance sector, the Old Mutual Group held the 2016 CEOs’ Retreat of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) in Osun, with the  theme: “Growing Insurance Amidst Regulation.”
Speaking at the event, Commissioner for Insurance, Alhaji Muhammed Kari, emphasised the need for practitioners to adhere strictly to the ethics of the insurance profession,  pointing out that rules and regulations are important to drive professionalism.
He added that the regulatory body was prepared to be more flexible in its approach to the industry as he called for the rebranding of the industry to appeal to the consuming public.
“As stakeholders, both the regulator and the operators should be able to work together to enhance industry growth. On our part, we have accepted to be more flexible in our approach to the industry.