The remains of star actress and wife of popular actor, Jide Kosoko, Henrietta Emymejakpo will be buried today Friday June 10, 2016 at Atan Cemetery, Lagos.
According to a statement issued by Kosoko, Henrietta’s final journey to the great beyond commenced yesterday with a Christian wake and cultural performance at the Blue Roof, Lagos Television premises, Ikeja, Lagos.
The funeral service for the deceased holds today at Catholic Church, Regina Mundi, Idi-Oro, Mushin, Lagos. This will be followed by interment at Atan Cemetery, Lagos.
Henrietta Kosoko died at R-Jolad Hospital, Gbagada, Lagos on Monday June, 6, 2016 at about 10.30am after a brief illness. Sweet Friday pizzazz debuts at Eko Signature If you are a lover of the pizzazz extravagant dining culture in Europe or America with crystal Martini or fluted champagne glass in hand, and you probably have to glance from the keyboard of a grandmaster pianist, then Eko Signature Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos is the place to be today.
Nestling in the ocean view ambience with uniquely African hospitality, the management of Eko Signature led by avant-garde chef, Gioacchino Liguori is beckoning on celebrity artistes, Nollywood stars, business executives and very important personalities to experience tonight what he tags ‘La Dolce Vita’ (sweet life).
According to Liguori, guests will also revel in the glamour and lively pizzazz of music, dance, pleasures with exotic wines and signature liquors that typify the 1960’s charming Friday night escape in the United States of America.
Liguori, who took over the mantle at Eko Signature early this year following the exit of Theo Tiemessen, describes La Dolce Vita as a specially packaged Friday night fiesta that offers guests a nostalgic taste of perfect dining featuring Hors d’ouvré (canapés), Charcuterie (grilled sausages), chocolaterie (chocolate desserts), cheeses and crusty baguettes, with a wide range of red wines, Chardonnay wines, single malt whisky and vintage ports.
“Eko Signature Friday entertainment package is about glamorous divas, celebrity connoisseurs and star artistes who deserve a great treat in our posh hotel restaurant and romantic environment. Our wine guide is also straightforward. The only rule for us at Eko Signature is to serve wine that compliments your food and suits your taste perfectly,” Liguori stressed.