 EXPERIMENTING WITH NEW FORMS OF SEXUAL PLAY (I) Getting to do the same thing over and over again can be very boring. This also applies to our sexual routine. Are you ready to start experimenting with something a little different? Good for you! Variety really is the spice of life, especially when it comes to sexual relationships. Documented evidence exists supporting the theory that humans don’t find familiarity and repetition erotic. In order to maintain a healthy monogamous relationship, you need to mix thingsup, keep things changing and introduce a little experimental activity like ; oral sex, anal play,  fantasy and role play, shaving, bondage & domination. These categories would be thoroughly dealt with over the coming weeks. Hello Viewden, thank you so very much for your help to people like me who is diabetic and use to have very weak erection; but thanks to Vimax that I got from you two weeks back, my erection is stronger and better even at 65 years of age. Thank you so very much. My wife’s Vagina is always dry and she complains of pains during sex, what can she use? Biyi Vimax is an amazing product when it comes to correcting weak erection and giving instant strong erection especially for the diabetics. Vimax is a herbal supplement and as such very safe for every man to use including men with any health issue. To prevent dryness of vagina and pain during sex, your wife can take lubricants like Mood,Liquid sex, Moist, System Jo to lubricate the vagina and once this is done, the pains shouldn’t be witnessed unless there is an infection. She can also get Germany sex drops with any arousal gels like Mood, Crazygirl, Horny-honey gel, 69 lick me etc. to arouse her. If she’s properly aroused, her vagina will be naturally wet. I ordered Xzen 1200 from you, but I discovered that it didn’t really give me that VERY strong erection that I want, cos I wanted it really hard. A friend gave me just 2 pills of Extenze plus and I had my erection very hard. Can I get it from you? Bonniface Hello Bonniface, Xzen 1200 is very effective for a  lot of things, just that it is body-type sensitive i.e. it chooses the body to work in, so don’t be discouraged as there are numerous people who have gotten used to Xzen 1200 because of its efficiency, not to worry; Extenze plus  gives very hard erection also and corrects premature ejaculation in men, maybe that’s why most men prefer Im a 45 year old man with NO-erection for the past 6 months, though I’m a type 2 diabetic man and have tried different enhancers, but a doctor friend of mine referred you to me, what treatment can I start on to correct this dysfunction , cos I’m ashamed of myself–Olu Mr Olu, I understand that feeling of not been able to satisfy your woman, but not to worry I’ll advise you start taking either Vimax or Prosolution daily for the next two to three months. You can also be using your diabetic drugs cos it doesn’t affect it; just that you should leave four hours interval when using either supplement. You should start to notice arousal and a little erection in the first three days of using, and as you progress to the2nd week hard erection should be noticed. I am presently using Vigrx plus with penis pump and I have started noticing that my penis is getting fat, but I need more of length. Do I continue using them and for how long do I need to use to get about 2 inches added to the length? Okoro Vigrx plus and penis pump are very effective in increasing both the length and the thickness of the penis. Like I use to say, enlargement starts from the width of the penis before it progresses to the length. If you do want to add about 2 inches or thereabout, you need to use Vigrx plus for at least 2 months alongside with the pump and when you have gotten the size you want, you can stop taking the Vigrx plus cos it permanently opens up the penile tissues for the enlargement.      What other erection enhancers can I get from you that will give fast erection when I need it on demand? Chi Yes we have safe and herbal products like Man up, Libimax plus,Plant Vigra, Sexvoltz and Xzen 1200 to mention but a few which will work 30 minutes after taking them and they are safe without side effects. These are all we can take for this week. Adults who needs any of these aphrodisiacs can call 08034666358, 07059294782 or place your order at www.viewden.com. For further enquiries, send an email to us at: vieweden@yahoo.com, viewden@ymail.com. Kemi Fawole (MD) 