From Godwin Tsa, Abuja A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has ordered the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to produce former Air Officer in charge of Tactical Air command, Makurdi, Air vice Marshal, Rufus Ojuawo. He has been in detention for over 100 days.
Justice Adeniyi Ademola gave the order yesterday after Ojuawo’s counsel; R.N. Ojabo moved an application for the enforcement of his (Ojuawo) fundamental human rights.
His appearance was ordered by the court to enable it know which of the agencies  is keeping him since EFCC has denied that he is in its custody, having been released on administrative bail.
Until his arrest by EFCC on February 7, 2016, at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, AVM Ojuawo was carrying out his duties as the Air officer Commanding the Tactical Air Command, Nigerian Air Force, Makurdi.
He was picked on the way to Stuttgart, Germany, on national assignment as a member of the Armed Forces delegation to the United States African Command (USAFRICOM), where he was scheduled to deliver a keynote address on issues bordering on the speedy conclusion of the fight against Boko Haram.
Since his arrest, according to his lawyer, he has been confined on the instructions of the respondent (EFCC).
The lawyer told the court that, at the time his client was arrested, Ojuawo was not aware that his name was on any watch-list and was restricted from foreign travels due to ongoing arms deal investigation.
Ojabo further informed Justice Ademola that his client was arrested by the Department of State Security (DSS) and handed over to  EFCC operatives who kept him in custody till the following day before taking his statement.
Ojabo also said that after taking his statement, EFCC insisted Ojuawo must pay N40 million, which, he said, was supposed to be proceeds of a transaction for the sale of his house at NAF Valley Estate, between him and one Abubakar Hilma.
The lawyer who disclosed that his client is currently in house arrest at the Niger Barracks, Asokoro said his client has not committed any misconduct or crime, whether financial or otherwise, and in over 33 years of meritorious service to the country, he has never involved in any misconduct or crime.
He added that from the point of arrest till now, his client has maintained his innocence, that he has no knowledge of the alleged Arms deal as he was not privy to any contract, or part of the negotiations for such contract, for the purchase of arms, otherwise called Arms deal.
Ojabo added that unless his application is granted, by the court, his client will continue to undergo emotional trauma, untold hardship and deprivation of his personal liberty and right to his life savings by the respondents.
But the EFCC through its counsel, Francis Jirbo denied keeping the applicant in its custody saying he was released on administrative bail after his statement was obtained.
In a counter affidavit filed before the court, the anti-graft agency disclosed that the applicant had in his capacity as the Director of Operations, Nigerian Air Force, was busy signing delivery notes for one of the contractors of the Nigerian Air Force Societe D’ Equipments Internationaux Nig. Ltd represented by Mr. Hima.
Jirbo added that sometimes February 8, 2016; the Nigerian Air Force brought the applicant to the office of the EFCC to be investigated on allegations of financial crimes precisely receiving money from a contractor with his employers in the name of a gift.
He informed the court that after the applicant was interviewed by offices of the EFCC who took his statement, he was released on bail on self-recognizance the same day to be reporting as the need arises.
The Commission’s counsel further told the court that  AVM Ojuawo has confessed receiving money from the contractor which he said is gift or good will from the contractor but that he could not remember the exact amount but offered to refund the sum of N40 million.
That a two count charge has been filed against him before a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory [FCT], while his arraignment has been fixed for June 23, 2016.