By Christine Onwuachumba Victoria Eruogho is the creative director of LSC designs, fashion brand that caters to both male and female apparels.Victoria, who hails from Ughelli North, Delta-State is also a wardrobe stylist and photo director and has clothed almost all the celebrities in Nigeria. Eruogho bagged a degree in Computer Science from Lagos State University and has several business development certificates in her resume. Saturday Sun spoke to her recently in Lagos.
How do one become a wardrobe stylist? 
A wardrobe stylist, also called a fashion stylist is a professional that selects the outfit of a public figure for appearances in mediums such magazine editorial, prints, television /online advertising, music videos etc. A wardrobe stylist’s job is a very interesting one because it entails working with a team, comprising hairdressers, make up artists ,designers etc. A wardrobe stylist doesn’t necessarily have to be responsible for making any of the outfit that is to be worn, rather, they decide and select the appropriate outfit that is to be worn to a function or for a purpose. If you watch closely, you will observe that i used the word OUTFIT , the reason is that an outfit makes up the complete look of a person. In summary, a wardrobe stylist decides, select and makes these things available through her team.  How do you decide what works for a client?
There are a lot of factors that can determine what works for a client and these factors vary among clients. For starters, body type is a primary factor that determines what works for what client, knowing that not all types of clothing works for all body types. I believe every outfit a client wears should compliment their body types or enhance it. I can determine what outfit is best for a particular client just by looking at their body types, Secondly, complexion is another factor to consider in determining what works for a client. Some colours look and work better on some particular skin tone.Thirdly, the purpose for which the outfit is to be worn by the clients plays a vital role too, there is a difference between dressing properly, dressing decently and dressing appropriately. A client can’t attend a wedding dressed in a bikini, neither can a client go on a red carpet of a major award show dressed in a pair of Jeans pant. That is what we call “Oops” in the fashion world. It is always best to dress appropriately. This is what a wardrobe stylist is for. A designer can”t take such decisions, No! At what point did you become fascinated with fashion?
Growing up, I had always had an opinion or a mind of my own when it comes to dressing up. My passion to appear different even as a little girl can be seen in my childhood pictures. My family members will tell you this ” Victoria’s own is always different “, thinking about it now, it is so funny to think that I would cut my long skirt just to make it shorter and different from the other girls in our church’s children choir or add some kind of accessories to my dress to make it look unique. How did you prepare yourself for a career in styling? The time I realised that this can become a serious business was when I was in a 9 to 5 Job as an investment marketer. My bosses would make me shop for them because they felt my suit was always different from every other person in the office. I would shop for suits, ties, shirts, shoes and belts. I literally was doing wardrobe styling job for free without knowing it, I honestly did not realise that being a wardrobe stylist is something you prepare for. You can only be born with such creative minds but you can also improve your creativity and get better too if you study more and carry out researches. But being creative has to come from the inside first. Styling for me was something I believe I was born with but styling as a career was birthed through knowledge acquired from reading and research. Who is your dream client?
A dream client for me, is that man or woman with zero self confidence. My satisfaction with such a person would be to change their mindset or ideology by transforming them thereby building their self confidence, I believe that looking good has a way of building one’s self confidence. Having said that ,if I would pick a nigerian celebrity ,it wouldn’t hurt to clothe Genevieve Nnaji , and Richard Mofe Damijo. For the American celebrity I would have to say Sarah Jessica Parker, Cate Blanchett and Brad Pitt. Reasons being that they are people with a sense of style. So, to style them will be a milestone for me , not to mention that they all have a body anybody would die and this makes my job even easier . Where do you see yourself in the nearest future?
I see myself carving a niche in the styling world. I look forward to a owning a brand that would be recognised and trusted for its class and excellence in Africa and beyond, I see myself styling for top brands around the world as well as public figures.
What is the difference between a stylist and a designer?
A designer is one that creates, sketches designs and select materials , and have a part in all the production aspect of the design. Designers create an image in their minds and then transform it into something tangible. A stylist selects and puts together outfits, he or or she doesn’t necessarily sew or design any of the outfit. A stylist works with the designs already created by designers .
Which part of your job is the best and the most challenging? 
The best part of my job is seeing my imaginations and thoughts become a reality. I mean, when a simple thought is transformed into a work of art, a masterpiece. The mere truth that my work adds value to humanity in the smallest of ways is fulfilling. I’m happy when my job makes people feel better about themselves, builds self confidence…and the rate at which Nigerians are buying Nigerian brands now is amazing. The challenge, for me is making my brand easily accessible in every part of Nigeria for a start and outside the shores of Nigeria. As for the usual challenge, it is not having enough of our products available for buyers but that will soon change
by God ‘s grace .