 From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi AT least, six persons including a community leader have been allegedly killed with several others injured after suspected Fulani herdsmen invaded Gabo village in Nengev and Turan Councils wards of Logo Local Government Area of Benue State on Friday. Sunday Sun gathered that a rumour made the rounds in the communities in Logo about the invasion by the Fulani herders, a development which made hundreds of the people around the area to move to safer havens while some who doubted the invasion stayed back. Unfortunately for those who refused to leave, the invading Fulani herdsmen stormed the affected communities shooting sporadically into the air and killing everyone in sight. Although, some of the fleeing villagers told Sunday Sun reporter that several persons were killed, the member representing Logo State Constituency, Hon. Terna-­Kester Kyenge said he received six corpses of those who were killed. “I received six mutilated corpses and addressed hundreds of displaced persons including women and children. I condemn the attack as gruesome and barbaric. I, however, call for restraint on the part of my people while I urge the federal and state governments to intervene in arresting the culprits and provide relief materials to the displaced people.” When contacted, Police Public Relations Officer  (PPRO), ASP Moses Yamu, Confirmed the report and said that five persons were killed while one person was still missing as at the time of filing this report. Yamu further disclosed that the corpses of the deceased victims had been deposited at the morgue of the General Hospital, Ugbah, and stated that peace had been restored to the area. He urged the people to go back to their homes. “You know, these Fulanis always strike in a guerrilla manner. Once they strike, they leave the area. Security has been beefed up in the area and the people can now return to their homes,” Yamu said. Recall that incidents of Fulani invasion have become recurring in Benue with the attendant high casualty figures especially on the side of the Benue people. 