 The Federal Government has said that the relationship between Nigeria and China is a win-win partnership, which offers ample opportunity for both countries to develop enormously.
A statement by Mr. James Akpandem, media adviser to the Minister for Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, quoted the minister as telling Nigerian embassy staff in in Beijing that the country’s relationship with China was important and must be sustained.
“We must do the needful to enhance the relationship because Nigeria has a lot to learn from the Chinese, particularly, how they were able to transform their country within a short space of time,” he said.
The budget minister said that Nigerian’s current efforts at enhancing relationship with China were not just for financial assistance but also more importantly to tap from its transformation experience and narrow the trade deficit between the two countries.
Explaining Nigeria’s focus at coordinator’s meeting of the Forum for China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), the minister said Nigeria’s interest was seeking financing support for rail, roads, power and other infrastructure, which are critical in driving the economic development in the diversification efforts of the current administration.
Senator Udoma reiterated the importance of patronising made-in-Nigeria goods, as a demonstration of our patriotism and advised that Nigerians, as great people with great potentials, should believe in themselves and in their country. …Seeks China’s support in funding critical projects From Basil Obasi, Abuja The Minister for Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, has made a strong case why the Chinese government should support Nigeria in funding major infrastructure projects.
Speaking during the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) meeting in Bergin, Udoma said that Nigeria seeks to get about $20 billion Chinese funding for critical projects in the form of grants, aids, investments and loans from the $60 billion pledged by the Chinese government at the Johannesburg Summit in South Africa in December 2015.
According to a statement by his media aide, Mr. Akpandem James, Udoma said Nigeria should be given special attention from the Chinese fund considering its strategic relationship with China, economic potentials and capacity to redeem its part of the transaction obligations.
The statement also quoted China’s State Councilor, Yang Jiech, as saying that the FOCAC meeting was initiated in order to take stock of the delivery of summit outcomes, “to align our thinking, build consensus, overcome challenges, share experience and promote cooperation.”
In his remark, the President of China, Xi Jinping, applauded the proceedings of the meeting, stating that it was an important step taken by China and Africa to implement the consensus of Chinese and African leaders and the outcomes of the FOCAC. INTERIOR: FG flags off 2016 youth-family pilgrimage  From Fred Itua, Abuja The Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Rev. Tor Uja, has disclosed that the flag-off of 2016 youth-family pilgrimage to Israel would kick off on August 27, 2016 at the Pilgrims’ Terminal, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja.
The NCPC boss also revealed that the processing of visa applications for the August pilgrimage would end on August 8, the same day entries will close.
Rev. Uja advised all intending pilgrims to step up efforts in their application processes so as to meet up with the guidelines and deadline set by the commission.
He stressed the importance of the youth and family pilgrimage to the young ones and families. “The young ones need Jesus now, thus going to the ‘Land of the Bible’ will expose them to the fact that the Bible is real,” he said.
Aside from the spiritual benefits, he said the youth would be meaningfully engaged and be able to live a productive life without having to depend on government for employment and livelihood after being exposed to the skill acquisition programme of the commission.
“Youth pilgrimage will empower our young ones by exposing them to the rich agricultural opportunities in Israel and on return replicate same in Nigeria,”‎ he said.
The NCPC boss assured all intending pilgrims that the commission and the ground handlers in Israel would do everything possible to ensure that this year’s edition of youth-family pilgrimage would be a hitch-free exercise. EDUCATION: Mafiana assumes duty as Ag NUC boss From Fred Ezeh, Abuja First Deputy Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Professor Chinedu Mafiana, yesterday took over the mantle of leadership, as Acting Executive Secretary of the Commission. He succeeds Prof. Julius Okojie, who has been in that position since August 2006.
Mafiana, who joined the commission in 2003, as a visiting professor, is expected to occupy the position until the Federal Government announces a substantive head for the commission.
At a brief handover ceremony in Abuja yesterday, Prof Okojie attributed his success and achievements to the collective determination and diligence of both the management and staff of the Commission.
He added that truth, courage and conscience were at the root of his success, while challenging his successor to maintain those principles for a continuous progress.
He said: “There is no much secret to my success, as the NUC ES than the principles that I have mentioned earlier, which include truth, courage and conscience. And most important of all was the application of the existing laws that were clearly spelt out to guide the administration and regulation of Nigerian university system.
“We have the laws already. So, all we did was to apply them where and when necessary, and we were left with no option but to achieve the expected result. Thanks to my great team that supported me morally and otherwise.”
In an acceptance speech, Prof Mafiana appreciated the outgone ES for his selfless service, innovations and determination that resulted in obvious success that has been achieved in the past 10 years.
He promised to always maintain the standard and benchmark already set by his predecessor. He also solicited the support and collaboration of other management staff as well as the media for the expected result to be achieved. 