Both the Premium Times and The Nation newspapers online, carried the news. It was of huge amounts that have been illicitly warehoused by certain persons or executives of the Nigeria Ports Authority, NPA, apparently on criminal intent. This much is an allegation, yet unproven.
The news of course emanates from the just employed Chief Executive of NPA, Ms Hadiza Usman or her bogeymen. The said Ms. Usman, whose appointment has been distinguished more by nepotism than anything else, is deemed to be a key person in the wily deal of the present powers controlling APC, to convert Nigeria into their ethnic tributary state. Simply put she is an agent of internal colonialism masquerading as a technocrat and moral crusader. What greater corruption is there than that of all the appointments so far made by the APC led federal government, northerners who are Moslems, are achieving about 95 per cent predominance? This is especially in the critical areas of oil, security and now NPA. Why is she bothered that money is missing when an ethnic or regional cum religious militia is taking over our common heritage and she may be a leg in the game?  Is she not an agent of this ethno-regional-religious militia, and is her brief not to go in and find or found the others who are not us, guilty? Otherwise how does she explain that a girl or guy who has just gotten into things, about one month ago, is talking missing money?
Yes Ms. Hadiza was hired about one month ago. It is thus clear that she is yet to have had herself acclimatised in the labyrinthine processes and procedures, of the behemoth, NPA. If like some of us, you are familiar with accounting processes and conventions, it is certain that you can’t unravel or even see anything in just one month of resumption of office. And the matter is even more so for sprawling institutions like NPA. NPA by the way, is bigger than many tiny west African countries in revenues streams and complexity. In fact, the least in time it will take the most diligent accounting or auditing firm, say one of the big 4 world brands, to do justice in auditing and establishing fraud in corporations as large as NPA, is 6 months.
Within those six months, queries would have been raised, answers sought and defenses made. It is not enough that an auditor, however self-vouchsafed his personal or professional integrity is, believes himself or herself. The ordinary laws of natural justice must hold. It demands that the accused or in this case those fingered be called upon to explain all they know about suspicious transactions or approvals.
So the business of any new helmsman or woman is also to be patient and let the due processes which must take time, run their courses. But what is Ms. Hadiza up to? It is apparent it is all drama. Just one month and there are no audited accounts and you are on a circus of missing billions?
Please somebody should tell her that government business is not in the drama of grandstanding or being an activist. It requires that someone be able to swallow burden, sit still on his or her desk and get the job done. It is only after that that the fellow may reach out for her friends in the media to say even if not authoritatively, at least seriously, that so much millions are being illicitly squirreled away by financial bandits.
Ms. Hadiza should quickly come to knowledge that she is no longer an activist. She was appointed to run NPA. Yes, she has need to look back at how things were before her arrival, but that must be within due and believable processes. Otherwise one gets the impression that the drama of billions being stolen or misappropriated is a game plan of the APC. They want us to be distracted and next they will turn our commonly owned Nigeria into their Ethnic-Northern-Moslem laager. And then the real stealing will begin by these same characters who have distracted us that others are rogues. We have seen this movie before. It is meet to recall that one General Sani Abacha once entertained and distracted this nation with the circus of thieving bankers. And in that loss of focus by citizens, Abacha turned up one of the greatest petermen in the game. Ms. Hadiza Usman, this is an old movie, let’s leave it in the archives. Re: The many myths that are all bones and no nourishments Dear Sir Jimanze, I would like to comment on your assertion that, “All religions come with as little as can be, in matters of logic and substance. They, especially the Abrahamic religions, have a history of opposing and hamstringing science and thus data”, but firstly let me agree with you entirely on the views summarised in the following words of yours, “To debunk the myth of Buhari-Obasanjo as strong willed soldiers in civilian agbada, let’s ask ourselves one question. Why is it that when they attended international conferences in which their fellow conferees are idle civilians like Obama, etc., why were they being supplicants and not bullies? So if their strong political characters are military willed why is it Nigeria specific, why is it not a trait without borders? Additionally, Buhari and Obasanjo are not the only soldiers who came to preside over democratic orders. As generals go, Ike Eisenhower, an American general, is certainly more world famous than either Buhari and Obasanjo or even the two pulled together. Yet there are no records he exercised more powers than was granted him by the American constitution”. Sir permit me now to return to your claim that “All religions come with as little as can be in matters of logic and substance”, and you specifically noted the Abrahamic religions. I will start by refuting your apparent categorisation of Christianity and Islam in one box as Abrahamic religions. While both have roots dating back to Abraham, religion is a philosophical concept and neither a genetic or poetic concept. Any religious belief stands or falls on the philosophy it espouses. The philosophies of religious beliefs are given substance in its theological or doctrinal practices or sometimes its poetry. To therefore understand religion as only poetry is to fail miserably in grasping the import of religion, certainly the Christian religion.
I will continue by clarifying at this stage that I speak for Christianity only and not all other religions. In fact, I speak for the Catholic Church specifically as it is the faith I subscribe to and can defend its logic and truth. Christ came to establish a Church and not churches. It is therefore one of the intellectual errors in Christendom to attempt to debate Christianity based on the positions of each of the knock offs from the faith since Father Martin Luther’s so called reformation, but more appropriately, revolution.
How is the Christian faith solidly grounded in logic? The philosophical underpinning of Christianity is that Truth is supreme and truth with a capital T is in fact a person. Christianity does not subscribe to the false theory of relativism. It is self-evident that 2 + 2 equals to 4. You cannot improve on that truth, neither can you subtract from it and yet be correct. The bible teaches, “Know ye the truth and the truth shall set you free”. It further states, “for lack of knowledge my people perish”. Western European epistemology and civilization was built on philosophies espoused by intellectual giants of the Catholic Church like Thomas Aquinas and St Augustine. This has of course been supplanted by philosophy evolving since Father Martin Luther’s revolution, with relativism and maturing into Modernism. In our new world, which is actually a return to Pre-Christian barbarism, most pregnancies in New York, the cultural capital of the New World ends in Abortion. Please google abortion procedures on the internet and see how we rip the bodies of innocent unborn children in the safety of their mother’s womb in the abortion procedure. At no other time in the history of humanity have there been sanctioned wild scale killing of the innocent. This is where the “geniuses” of Modern philosophy like Locke have brought us. Headline news on Sun News today 12/08/16 has a story of an American mother defiant about her right to fall in love with her son and have sex whenever she like him. This is the future we are being lead to by those who have defined our new way of arriving at the truth.
The Catholic Church has thought epistemology anchored on the principle of none contradiction. A thing cannot “be” and yet “not be” under the same aspect. This logic is way superior to the relativist Modernist errors that have brought us back to the jungle hidden within street lights and glitz. Modern civilization and institutions from academia to healthcare to the justice system were built initially on the catholic principles, by Catholics in Catholic nations, subject to catholic philosophy and morals. The dismantling has started and proceeding fast. Time is ripe and we are in fact now in desperate need for founding of a new scripture as you have rightly said in the past. The new scripture however can only be a fulfilment of the old as we cannot add to truth and purity. You cannot further perfect the sum of 2 + 2 as equal to 4. A new scripture can help us to shine the light at the truth and redirect our ways as truth is discovered and not created; for truth is supreme and creates itself.
I am the way, the truth and the live says the Lord. I would like to refer you to authentic teachings of the Catholic Church in a website: www.churchmilitant.com. You may also wish to read different works of Thomas Aquinas on the logic of the Christian faith. Thank you Sir. Dr. Jude Ugwu jiugwu@hotmail.com 