From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan AT least, six persons lost their lives in a ghastly road accident that occurred at Kilometre 15, quarry area of Ibadan-Lagos Expressway around 5:36pm yesterday. Also, 21 persons reported­ly sustained varying degrees of injury in the auto crash. The auto crash involved two Mazda commercial buses with registration num­bers EKY 59 XR, AME 384 XA; and one Mercedes Benz Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) with registration number EKY 111 BL. Eyewitness accounts re­vealed that the three vehicles were going to Lagos from Ibadan before the accident occurred. Public Relations Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Oyo State command, Mr. Seun Onijala, who confirmed the incident said the accident was as a re­sult of dangerous overtaking. He said the remains of the dead passengers had been deposited at the Adeoyo Hospital morgue, Ibadan, while the injured victims were taken to Ibadan Cen­tral Hospital at Ososami for treatment. Meanwhile, two Nigerians have been killed in South Af­rica, barely three days after a Nigerian businessman, 35-year-old Ikejiaku Chin­edu, was beaten to death. The fresh cases of death bring to 17, the total num­ber of Nigerians killed in 2016 alone. Lamenting over the in­cessant killings, Ikechukwu Anyene, President of Nige­ria Union in South Africa, called for the intervention of the Federal Government. “The Nigerian commu­nity in South Africa is not happy with the killings,” he told News Agency of Nige­ria (NAN). “We urge the Federal Government to persuade its South African coun­terpart to investigate and prosecute incidents of kill­ings of Nigerians in South Africa. Anyene said the most recent tragic incidents oc­curred at different areas of Johannesburg.  Our Error On August 1, 2016 we published on our website www.sunnewsonline.com  a story of a crash on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, in which 6 persons were killed. The story was factual and correct in its entirety. However the picture of an accident involving a Peace Mass Transit Limited bus was mistakenly used. We have since realised this error and we are truly sorry for any embarrassment this may have caused the  Peace Mass Transit Limited. 