By Chidi Obineche Following far reaching indications and reports of massive disenchantment and rumble in the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, some officials of the party at the weekend swiftly dismissed it and attributed it to the handiwork of some elements determined to create friction and disunity within the party, the government, and among its leaders.
Those who spoke to Sunday Sun include the National Organizing Secretary, Senator Osita Izunazo, the National Treasurer, Chief George Muoghalu, and the Publicity Secretary of the Lagos chapter of the party, Engr Joe Igbokwe. The trio roundly condemned the reports and called for collaborative efforts of all in the daunting task to build a new Nigeria, and achieve the lofty objectives and manifesto of the party.  Moughalu described those behind the reports as “those who are trying to create problem, where there is no problem. They are not truthful and cannot be well meaning members of our party. No issue like that has ever cropped up in any organ of the party. So why are they grumbling without reaching out to the appropriate organs? The party is strong, united and cohesive. I suspect that this sounds more like a craft from the opposition PDP, a party that is gasping for breath. There is no problem here. The leaders are working in harmony with the president.”
Similarly, Igbokwe said the reports may not be unexpected in a political party. “People will always grumble. It is always like that. It is not easy to satisfy everyone.  But the president is carrying the leaders of the party along. Those who are trying to sow seeds of discord are doing it for their own selfish reasons. I don’t think Asiwaju has any issues with anyone, not even with the president.”
Izunaso, who is currently abroad also dismissed the reports, adding that “nothing so far has created the impression that there is a likelihood of any blow –up in the party, now and in the foreseeable immediate future. He said the party is well structured to withstand such upheavals, if and when they come, while advising those who are not happy with the party to use the appropriate channels, “ rather than going to the press”. 