Ijaw communities in riverine areas of Edo State have lamented the abject neglect they have suffered under the outgoing state government and called for the creation of development centres in the state.
The communities scattered in five major clans namely Olodiama, Egbema, Gbaraun, Furupagha and Okomu in Ovia Northeast, Ovia Southwest and Ikpoba-okha local governments of the state, say such centres now operational in several states will give them a sense of belonging.
In an address of welcome presented to the campaign team to Gelegelegbene community led by the PDP state chairman, Chief Dan Orbih and read by Chief Robinson Ogunkoru, they said they last tasted government presence under a PDP state government.
”We call for the creation of development centres in each of our five clans which will stand as a gap for the development of our areas and in order to give us a sense of belonging as it is in some other states “.
“We are aware that it was the PDP that gave recognition to Ijaw voice  in Edo State. Today, Ijaw voice is heard in the state broadcasting service both in the radio and television, “ he said.
Acknowledging that the SIMPLE agenda of Pastor Ize-Iyamu was detailed and articulates the many challenges facing Edo State, the Ijaw communities appealed that he adhere strictly to the agenda if elected the governor.
Responding, Ize-Iyamu said that as the only state that does not have a PDP governor in the oil-rich South-South, it will be wise for Edo people to return the state to the PDP on September 10 with their votes.
“Edo is the only state that is not PDP in the South-south and deserves to return to the PDP fold so that it is not left out. The way the country is going today, we need to be together and this can bring lots of benefits through regional integration.
“It will be my pleasure as governor to ensure that a lot of the things you asked to be done in Ijaw communities are considered and given due attention”, he said.
Chief Dan Orbih addressing party supporters at the campaign rally assured them that the PDP will keep faith with its promises once it assumes office.
‎He pleaded with eligible voters in the communities not to sell their votes for a paltry sum of N2000 but to turn out in large numbers on Election Day, vote for the PDP and wait for the results to be declared before going home.
‎The campaign team had earlier visited Ughoton community, in Ovia northeast local government where Osagie’s grandmother, Igbinoghene Ize-Iyamu (nee Ogiemwanre Obazuwaye) hailed from.  I’ll make Gelegele seaport reality, Obaseki assures Edo people The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has assured the people of Edo State that the long awaited Gelegele sea port will be a reality when elected in the September 10 election.
He gave the assurance at the APC ward rally in Gelegele, where he was also endorsed by five Ijaw communities and groups including the Ijaw Youth Congress(IYC) and the Ijaw National Congress (INC).
Addressing His Royal Highness, Godwin Ogorigbo, the Alagbabunafide 3, HRM Pereroma Ukuwosema, the Perero of Wepa kingdom, High Chief Uponanawe Azonto, the Amanawe of Saparogbogbara kingdom, leader of the Izon people in Edo State, the founder, Ijaw National Congress, Prof C.O Dinno, the Chairman, INC Western Zone, Chief Ogukoro Robinson, other Chiefs and supporters, Obaseki assured: “I will not take you for granted. I want to assure you that we are all Edos and there will be no discrimination of any tribe or community in Edo State”.
The candidate in company of his wife, Mrs Betsy Obaseki who emphasized on the need to make the Gelegele sea port a container terminal said: “we have not done all the schools,  there are many roads we have not done so when you vote for continuity, all those things and more that you have asked for will be done.
“There are so many things I will do as governor, one is empowerment of the youths. We will set up technical and vocational school in Gelegele and ensure that everyone has a skill to either repair computer or do tailoring so that you will be able to feed yourselves and family.
“We will also focus on women empowerment. We will give women loans to grow their businesses. We will also deal with agriculture by investing in mechanised farming. We already have companies who are willing to invest in the state and create jobs for every Edo person”.
On the Gelegele sea port, he said: “we have met with the minister of transport and we have planned to make the Gelegele sea port a container terminal so that economic activities will be improved in the state”.
Wife of the APC candidate, Mrs Betsy Obaseki who also spoke at the campaign, urged the Ijaw communities to support her husband who will not fail in providing more dividends of democracy to the people.
Speaking on behalf of the communities, His Royal Highness, Godwin Ogorigbo said: “The Ijaw people have organised themselves to campaign for you in the nooks and cranny of the creeks of all the Ijaw communities in Edo State. We so much believe in the APC government, and we know that Obaseki will continue on what has been started by our governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole”. …Vote against him, wait for our ancestors -Monarch The Iyase of Udo Kingdom, His Royal Highness, Patrick Igbinidu, has said whoever votes against the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Godwin Obaseki, should wait for the ancestors of the land.
The monarch stated this yesterday when the APC ward campaign train made a stop at Udo, Ovia South West local government area.
While stating that the plan to develop the state must be realised, the monarch said: “We have sent him on an errand and we are praying to God to grant him success as the governor and we know whatever he has promised to do,  he will do.
“I’m very happy that he is ready to take over governance from Oshiomhole, we know that whatever Oshiomhole has started, Obaseki will finish and also improve on them”.
He further declared that, “all the nooks and cranny of Udo should be told that it is Obaseki that we will vote for as the next governor after Oshiomhole.
“You all have seen it; this is who the Udo people should support, who said he won’t vote for him, he should wait for the ancestors. The entire Udo kingdom should vote for him and anyone who gives his votes to another person is on his own.”
In his speech,  the APC candidate, Mr Obaseki who thanked the monarch for his immense support said attention will be given to the community to improve the standard of living in the area .
He said he would utilize the resources of the community to the benefit of the people who, he noted will be empowered and strengthened to be self dependent. We shall vote for APGA not Ize-Iyamu -Igbo Union Igbo unions in Edo State have debunked the claim by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, that the group had endorsed the candidate of the PDP, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu.
Reacting to the reports yesterday, spokesman of the group, Ambrose Aniele, said: “we have no business with the PDP because we have our candidate and that person is Osaro Onaiwu of the APGA. APGA is the Igbo party and we cannot leave it and vote for PDP. We have never endorsed Ize-Iyamu so they should stop that propaganda.
“As I speak to you, we are campaigning for APGA and instead of supporting PDP we will support APC because whether you like it or not, Benin is beautiful today because of Oshiomhole and APC.
“I am aware that some of our people have met with APC candidate, Godwin Obaseki and Oshiomhole but I can tell you that majority of us will vote for APGA because it is the party for the Igbo. The only problem APC has is the taxation problem but Oshiomhole has worked to be honest. You cannot compare PDP with APC, the PDP people have big men who share the money, they don’t care about we Igbo, so why will we vote for them,” he said. APGA raises the alarm over fake logo in circulation All Progressives Grand Alliance(APGA) in Edo State has raised the alarm over a deliberate act perpetrated by the All Progressives Congress(APC) in the state to truncate and discredit the electoral process.
A statement by Osaro Onaiwu’s Campaign Director General, Mr. Patrick Anethua, said they have uncovered that some members of the APC have gone ahead to print and distribute to the public article 3 showing parties’ initials, logo, and voting pattern indicating wrong party logo between APGA and CPP in order to deceive voters.
“This is in furtherance of the overwhelming popularity and support being enjoyed by APGA in Edo State.
“The original logo of the CPP is the human Palm sign and that of the APGA party is the cock sign.
“ The general public should be aware of this low esteem intrigues and “politricking” by the Edo State APC”, the statement alleged.  Oshiomhole plans to scheme Esan out of political relevance –Yakubu Running mate to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate,
John Yakubu has alleged that Governor Adams Oshiomhole’s plan is to scheme out the Esan people from political relevance in Edo State.
He disclosed this during an interactive session with Esan groups.
Yakubu told the
gathering that there was need for the Esan people to unite and fight against the present marginalization and humiliation the Oshiomhole-led‎ government has subjected the Esan people to.
He briefed the people how Comrade Oshiomhole allegedly stopped the Ibore and Okhunlen erosion projects the federal government wanted
to execute in Edo Central senatorial District, adding that the only way they could put a stop to this present marginalization is to vote
massively for PDP.
He challenged the governor to react to
this issue and tell Edo people why he stopped the project.
He also informed the people of the recent withdrawal of seven courses ‎by the National University Commission (NUC) from Ambrose Alli University,
Ekpoma, which he attributed to non-proper funding of the institution.
“If Governor Oshiomhole can spend up to N40 billion in Iyamho University, he could not fund Ambrose Alli University ‎with at least N1 billion which would have stopped NUC from their action.
Yakubu assured his kinsmen that he and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu would not disappoint them if voted into power as they have a covenant with the people with their simple agenda.
On his part, the Chairman on the occasion, former Vice-Chancellor of University of Benin, Prof Abhulimen Richard Anao said the simple reason
that brought them together in that event was that they are one as a people. He described Esan nation as very unique, hard-working and accommodating.
He said the Esan people need to have a say in the affairs of Edo State, adding that what is more important to them as a family is to always pursue the interest of the Esan people.
He described Yakubu as someone who is sincere and can be trusted with position because of his antecedent, and therefore enjoined the people to give him the needed support.