…Says Nigerians running out of patience From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja
An All Progressives Congress (APC) Board of Trustee member, Olisaemeka Akamukale said President Muhammadu Buhari made some fundamental mistakes in his appointments. He also alleged the president appointed three saboteurs who never believed in his presidency as ministers.
Akamukale, who made the disclosure while fielding questions from journalists at the APC headquarters, said Buhari needs to, immediately, roll out practical solutions to the myriad of problems confronting the country, warning  that many Nigerians were becoming impatient.
“I agree that it is painful to see certain persons appointed. I know three current serving ministers who told me that Buhari will never be the President of this country.
“Today, they are benefiting from Buhari government, but they should be ashamed because it is only a dog that goes back to its vomit. I have nothing against them because people will tell you that after party, it is government, but they are political jobbers. They claim that the president went for technocrats, but the big question is, who is not a technocrat.
“The truth is that most of them are interlopers because it takes those within the party to understand where the party is headed. I agree that Mr President, perhaps, because of what he met on ground and style of leadership, has not been forthcoming with the distribution of leadership.
“There are lots of our members waiting to be compensated. It is natural all over the world. However, I am sure these things will soon be sorted out because we are getting there. I know we have to be patient but I know that some people are running out of patience,” he said.
He added: “If by 2019, the dream is cut short by Nigerians, many people you see today, some who are ministers and others, will go back, but some of us will still remain. Many people will go back and look for a new government to take position. They will tell you that they are technocrats because they have nothing to lose.
“If you really ask me, I think Nigerians are becoming impatient with us because it is now about two years into this government. So, it is for Nigerians and not about me or about APC members. It is for Nigerians to know what this government will do to benefit them.”
On what Mr President should do, he said: “I think the president should bring on board those who believe in the change mantra, those who yearned for change, those who could assist Mr. President in delivering the dividends of democracy to the masses of this country, because, at the end of the day, people that lose or gain are Nigerians. Nigerians voted for us and there are things they are expecting from us.” 6,532 IDPs complete CBN entrepreneurship training
From Timothy Olanrewaju, Maiduguri No fewer than 6, 532 youths, including persons displaced by Boko Haram insurgency in the six states of the northeast, have completed entrepreneurship training programme initiated by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).
The programme, which was launched in 2014 in Maiduguri by the CBN, was aimed at addressing increasing poverty and unemployment among youths in the region ravaged by six years insurgency, Managing Director of the development and implementing agency, Alhaji Abubakar Gusau told newsmen.
“It was a CBN initiative to tackle unemployment and poverty in the northeast. The insurgency we’ve witnessed here is largely caused by unemployment and poverty; what we’re doing is to create opportunities for people to be engaged in economic or business activities,” Gusau said.
He disclosed that the training organised at the CBN Entrepreneurship Development Centre in Maiduguri, started in 2014, in the heat of insurgency, adding that it trains a new set of entrepreneurs in the area. He said the programme was not skill acquisition but reorientation of people in the area to have a new mindset about self sufficiency, unlocking potentials to understand opportunities to invest or start business. He said the CBN provides fund which are available for trainees to access after the programme.
Gusau said they often do evaluation assessment of trainees to ascertain their proficiency in choice business during period of internship. He urged youths in the northeast to make use of the opportunity rather than embracing violence act.
He said the programme has created 4, 136 jobs cutting across the six northeast states of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba and Yobe. He however expressed concern over low turn-out of participants from Taraba and Adamawa states has been low, a development which he attributed to political instability in the two states in the last two years.
Former CBN governor and now Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi had during the launching of the EDC in 2014 disclosed that the expenses for the one to two training programme will be handled by the apex bank which will also provide needed fund for graduands with good business proposal.