From Chidi Nnadi, Enugu The family of the late governor of old Anambra State, Chief C.C. Onoh, yesterday confirmed that the Deputy Senate President, Dr Ike Ekweremadu, Governors Ifeanyi  Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Willie Obiano (Anambra) and Dave Umahi (Ebonyi) are among the many dignitaries coming to Enugu-Ngwo today for the burial of their matriarch, Chief Caroline Onoh.
she died at the ParkLane Specialist Hospital, Enugu on June 17, at the age of 81 years.
Governor Ugwuanyi in his condolence message to the family described the late Mrs Onoh as “a humble leader, a dedicated mother, devout Christian and respected wife of the late founding father of Enugu State and former governor of old Anambra State, His Excellency, Chief C.C Onoh, Aninefungwu.”
He urged the members of the Onoh family to find solace in the worthy legacies their mother and wife left behind.
Similarly, the Ebonyi State governor, Umahi said Mrs Onoh was “one woman that all of us would have loved to live on because of the many positive attributes she possessed.
“As a headmistress, she was outstanding. As a woman leader, she was a reference point and as a Christian, she served God and humanity from the bottom of her heart,” Umahi noted.
Josef Onoh, senior special assistant to Enugu State governor on Special Projects told Daily Sun that their late mother was a great mobiliser of women even as her home was a rallying point for numerous women’s organisations committed to the positive development of the state.
The children equally said that the pioneering role of their mother in the empowerment of the womenfolk can never be over emphasized.
The late Mrs Onoh fondly called Mmili Aku was the patron and founder of many organisations including, Patron of the Boys Brigade, Girls Guide, Life Member of the Holy Family, Patron of the Altar Boys, a Mass Server, Founder of the Afamefuna Cultural Association, Eke Daughters Association, a founding member of the Okwesilieze Social Group (the Premier women’s group of Eastern Nigeria), Grand Patron of the Catholic Women’s Organisation (CWO) among others. 