From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi. Determined to fish him out either dead or alive, the military, in a joint security operation yesterday stormed the Gbishe, Katsina-Ala Local Government area abode of notorious militant, Terwase Akwaza popularly known as Ghana.
This is even as the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai said the security operation in Gbishe was geared towards restoring normalcy to the area.
Buratai who was represented by the Chief of Policy and Planning, Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. Lincoln Ogunewe at the pulling-out ceremony of five retired Generals held at the Nigerian Army School of Military Engineering (NASME), Makurdi, told newsmen that it is the responsibility of the military to maintain peace whenever a breach of peace occurs anywhere in the country.
The COAS who noted that there had been reports linking Ghana with violence in that area and across Benue State added that it is a crime for the military to keep silent in that situation.
Meanwhile, the state government has said that the joint security agencies’ operation going on around Gbishe and its environs was to search for Ghana who had been linked with various criminal activities in the state.
A statement signed by acting Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Bem Melladu and made available to Sunday Sun, stated that the action followed Ghana’s refusal to report to the police to answer charges of murder, kidnapping, and armed robbery.
“The operation was approved by the State Security Council. Security reports have linked Mr. Akwaza with the assassination of Mr. Denen Igbana, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Special Security, five Civilian Joint Task Force members in Ukum local government area and several killings as well as the kidnap of the Dangote Cement Company Indian workers.”
While noting that Ghana, had shunned invitations by the police hence the operations became imperative, Melladu said the operation was part of the second phase of the Amnesty programme of the administration of Governor Samuel Ortom which is the stick approach after the carrot strategy had expired.
He therefore advised people of the state not to give cover to Ghana and his gang members but to rather give information about his whereabouts by text or calls to the security agencies through these numbers 08066006475, 07067374913, and 08036363531. 