By Gabriel Dike Authorities of the Lagos State University (LASU) have expelled 69 students for engaging in examination malpractice, gross misconduct and cultism.
A statement from LASU Centre for Information, Press and Public Relations (CIPPR) made available to Daily Sun disclosed that the university senate ratified the expulsion of 69 students for examination misconduct, gross misconduct and cultism but did not state the period the offences were committed.
It reads: ‘’The university Senate on the recommendation of the Committee of Provost, Deans and Directors on Examination Misconduct at its 228th Statutory Meeting held on Thursday, 2nd June, 2016, considered and ratified the expulsion of 69 students and the suspension of 25 others for the 2015/2016 academic Session.’’
Breakdown of the 69 suspended students indicate that the bulk of them are from the university numerous External System and many are final year students (500level).
Political Science recorded the highest with 19, Computer Science and Business Administration has 13 each, Sociology 6, English 5, Economics 4, Philosophy 2, Banking and Finance 2 while Geography, Industrial Relations and Personnel Management, Theatre Art and Music and Art, Science and Social Education had one each.
According to the university, the expelled students’ offence ranging from using fake docket, use of someone’s receipt to write examination, imported prepared examination Answer booklet into exam hall. Impersonation, snapped the course note of THA 303 and copied from phone during the examination, a male student was found searching for answers on his mobile phone (NOKIA) during POL 111.
The statement revealed a 100 level Political Science student brought jotted notes into the examination hall and was caught making use of the paper in answering the examination question. It was found to be relevant to the examination questions.
The statement further revealed that three students in the Department of Business Administration, Political Science and Economics Education were expelled for being members of cult groups such as aiye and they engaged in a fight.
Meanwhile, another 25 others had earlier been suspended for various offences pending their appearances before the constitute panels which the Senate ratified at their meeting. 