From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Federal Government has indicted the two sole manufacturers of urea blend of fertilizers in Nigeria, following discovery that terrorist sect, Boko Haram used nitrate based fertilizers to develop the Improvised Explosives Devices (IEDs).
This is even as it arrested five security operatives as well as other actors linked to incessant bombing of oil facilities in the Niger Delta, where it was discovered that commercial explosives and accessories were used for attacks.
They were found to be culpable for diverting about 9,000 kilograms of high explosives and 16,420 pieces of detonators for illegal use.
The government  warned that any individual or company that operates outside the confines of legitimacy or illegality would have itself to blame, adding that it would not listen to any influence peddler on behalf of any company that decides to sabotage national security.
The National Security Adviser, Brig. Gen. Babagana Mungono (rtd), who briefed the press with officials of the two sole fertilizer  manufacturers – Notore Petrochemical and Indorama Eleme Petrochemical in attendance, read the riot act, showing government’s displeasure in their activities which is also contributing to food shortage in the country.
He said despite government’s effort through the relevant authorities to grant them sole license as well as facilitate necessary importation of raw materials and also secure distribution network to the two comapnies, they were discovered to be exporting 71 per cent of the product to the detriment of the nation’s economy.
The NSA warned that the present economic realities notwithstanding, the government will not tolerate companies and individuals with vested interested taking the country for granted.
On the incessant bombing of oil facilities in the Niger Delta and the arrest of culpable persons, Mongono said: “let me also use this opportunity to inform you that this office conducted investigations into the incessant bombing of oil facilitates in the Niger Delta Region and discovered that commercial explosives and accessories were used for these attacks. Based on this fact, I directed our explosives experts in office of the National Security Adviser to conduct further investigations and detailed audit of the records of explosives magazines and quarries in that region, which revealed the diversion of about 9,000kg of high explsovies and 16,420 pieces of detonators for illegal use.
“The actors, including the store man of a major explosives distribution company in Nigeria, an accomplice and five security operatives have been arrested and handed over to appropriate authorities.
“Right now investigations are being conducted and I can assure you that they are deeply culpable and the necessary action will be taken on the conclusion of these investigations”.
The NSA while assuring on government’s commitment and his office to ensuring the wellbeing, safety and security of Nigerians, he charged the citizens to be committed to security and do their business in accordance to laid‎ down rules of law.
He reiterated that “any individual or company that operates outside the confines of legitimacy or illegality will have itself to blame and we also want to add that the government of the day will not listen to any influence peddler in the society on behalf of any company that decides to sabotage national security”.