By Louis Iba Air  Peace Limited is planning to commence  commercial flight operations out of Nigeria into Accra, Ghana; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; Atlanta, United States of America; China; Dakar, Senegal; and Niger Republic, its Chief Operating Officer, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Olajide, has said.
Mrs Olajide said that the planned foray into the offshore routes constituted part of the airlines new expansion programmme.
She said the civil aviation authorities of Ghana and Niger Republic have already endorsed the plan of the airline to spread its wings into their countries given the pedigree of the Nigerian carrier in giving priority to safety and global best practice in its operations.
“The airline is eager to operate the international flights soon as the chairman and management of Air Peace will continuously strive for excellence in all its operations and distinguish the airline through quality service delivery,” said Olajide.
“Air Peace will not relent in its expansion plan. The airline will strengthen the quality of its operations and facilities in keeping with its promise of assuring high level passenger safety,” she added.
Speaking during a two-day foreign air operator base inspection visit to Air Peace facilities in Lagos, Head of Operations Department of Niger Civil Aviation Authority, Mr. Bala Sani, said the airline’s safety standards, state-of-the-art equipment and structure qualified it for international flight operations.
Sani commended the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the airline, Chief Allen Onyema , and his team for not compromising standards in the company’s operations.
In its own assessment report, Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) said it was satisfied with the operations of Air Peace.  The report from the Ghanaian civil aviation regulator was signed by Mr. Samuel Benson, Capt. E. C. Dargbe and Dorothy Tackie – the two had inspected Air Peace’s facilities.
Olajide, while reacting to the assessment from the two African civil aviation regulators on Air Peace, pledged that the airline would continue to provide services that create value to its customers.
while ensuring that the comfort and safety of passengers are accorded top priority.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 