(Philip Nwosu, LAGOS) Barely 24 hours after ground troops, made of Soldiers from 174 Battalion in Ikorodu and personnel of the Nigerian Navy Special Boat Services (SBS), started maneuver to rid the creeks of Arepo and other areas of vandals and oil thieves, over 140 camps of the militants scattered in the area have been destroyed, Daily Sun can now authoritatively report. It was gathered that 75 camps were destroyed on Wednesday, while another 65 camps were destroyed earlier on Tuesday.
A key military source told Daily Sun that apart from destroying 140 camps, the military also recovered full police uniform bearing the rank of a corporal and a military uniform. Other items that were recovered in the camps of the vandals include four dane guns 36 cartridges 20 cutlasses, two bags of Omo, half bag of Garri, half bag of rice, a computer set, a cheque book and an identity card. Also Daily Sun learnt that 8 speed boat allegedly belonging to the vandals were destroyed by the military ground troops who are presently ran sacking the camps inside the creeks of Arepo, Ishawo, Awawa and other areas. Troops it was gathered have vowed to rid the area of criminals. The movement of the ground troop came in the wake of an intensified security in Badagry area of Lagos State over reports that militants had fled to the area. Daily Sun learnt that the Command of the ground troops is Lieutenant Colonel Julius Ogbobe, the Commander of the Land Component of Operation Awatse. The heightened security situation in Badagry it was gathered became necessary following reports that militants from Arepo area of Ogun had fled to Badagry due to the aerial bombardment of their camps by Air Force personnel. Investigation around the Badagry area and other neighbouring communities showed that security agencies have been deployed in strategic areas, and soldiers attached to the Lagos State security initiative commonly called Operation Mesa (OP MESA) haves been deployed in strategic areas in Badagry. On Tuesday there were reports that some suspected vandals from the Arepo area of Ogun State have fled the area to riverine communities in the Ilaje and Ese-Odo local government areas of Ondo State. Daily Sun investigations on Monday indicated that the vandals, who survived the intensified aerial bombardment by the Nigerian Air Force of their camps at Arepo, Ogun, and Ikorodu, Lagos, are now moving in droves into Ondo and Delta States. A top military source told Daily Sun that intelligence reports reveal that some of the oil thieves had sneaked into the reverine communities in Delta and Ondo States, but added that there will be no hiding place for the fleeing hoodlums. One of the Commanders of the operation said, ‘‘Arepo can no longer contain them. Some of them have run to those state to hide in the riverine areas.’’ 