From BAMIGBOLA GBOLAGUNTE, Akure since the alleged killing of Omosebine Efotan, a 26-year-old motor mechanic in Abe-Oroyo, a coastal community in Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State by some Naval officers in the town, the community has been enveloped in grief, as the residents continue to mourn Efotan who many described as a committed and loyal indigene of the town.
Sorrow and grief could be easily seen on the faces of the people, especially members of the Efotan’s family. This development also led to serious controversies between members of the community and officers of the Nigerian Navy at the Ori-Oke Iwamimi Command, who they alleged of killing their loved one.
Members of the community also threatened to attack the Naval post in the area, should the killers of Efotan be prevented from justice. They insisted the Naval officers in the area were responsible for the death. The community warned the Nigerian Navy to steer clear of the town to prevent crisis.
Abe-Oroyo is one of the communities with abundant mineral resources including crude oil. It is a peaceful settlement devoid of kidnapping, robbery and other vices associated with riverine towns in the state until the killing of Efotan. The  natives daily protested the killing and called for proper investigation and justice. The youths vowed to remain restless and restive until the killers of Efotan were brought to books.
Efotan was believed to have been killed by stray bullets on August 2, 2016, while sitting quietly at his workshop in the evening after the day’s work. According to a community leader who is also a relative of the deceased, Mr. Adeolu Efotan, Naval officers stormed the town on the order of a businessman (name witheld), in the evening of the fateful day and shot sporadically, a situation which he said led to the untimely death of Efotan.
He alleged that the businessman who deals in oil and gas engaged the services of the Naval officers to recover the N20,000.00 debt owed him by one Ebune. He added that the officers were angry when Ebune was not met at home and they resulted to shooting sporadically into the air. He said the stray bullets eventually hit the deceased who was sitting in his workshop and he immediately gave up the ghost.
Also a member of the community, Olaide Efuseme, alleged that the officers caused serious tension in the town as people scampered for safety when they invaded the town.
Although the matter was reported to the police, Efuseme said little or nothing was done by the police to investigate the matter and bring the culprits to justice. He appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Assembly, the Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe and the Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Mrs. Hilda Harrison to investigate the killing of their son.
Also, a member of the family of the deceased, Mr Sola Efotan, said the incident was reported at Igbokoda Police Station and the Homicide Section of the Ondo State Police Command in Akure but nothing has come out of it.
According to him, the Navy, in an alleged bid to cover up the incident went back to the community with two Navy gunboats on August 6, 2016, and threatened the traditional ruler of the town, Chief Adolphus Efotan, to allow for settlement on the matter.
He stated that the remains of the deceased were deposited at Ayemafuge Mortuary, Igbokoda.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, who confirmed the incident, said that the authorities of the Nigerian Navy have not handed over the case to the command, hence the inability of the police to investigate it:
“The incident actually happened but the Nigerian Navy has not handed the case to us. I think they too must have been doing their own investigation.”