The Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Hameed Ali has ordered the immediate detention of 16 containers wrongly declared by the importers/agents with the aim of paying lower duties and thus short-change the government in the process.
He also warned beneficiaries of port fast track clearance as the Service will not tolerate any breach of the trust.
Briefing journalists Friday, Ali said the containers of new tyres were wrongly declared as paper boards and machine parts that obviously attract lesser duties.
According to him, the containers which were supposed to exit the port without examination, were stopped upon discovery through intelligence that the importer made a wrong declaration deliberately to evade payment of complete duty for the importation.
The Customs boss added that the discovery has affected the integrity of the beneficiaries of fast track and will compel the Customs to consider effecting hundred percent physical examination going forward.
While admitting that such examination will cause delays and increase cost of doing business at the ports, Ali said the Customs was left with no other option due to the abuse.
According to the Customs Chief, a duty of N116,284,740 would have been evaded if the discovery was not made.
”Out of 26 containers by the same importer, we have seized16 but 10 have been miraculously moved out of the port. This issue is being investigated and all those involved when discovered will not be handled with kid gloves.
”False declaration by fast track beneficiaries is a breach of trust. This privilege was granted for easy clearing of their raw materials and save them from the burden of paying heavy demurrage. When we grant certain reprieve to some of our stakeholders and they abuse it, we will have no choice than to subject imports to hundred percent examination. We know it will cause delay and increase in the cost of doing business ” he said.
Tyres attract a duty rate of 35% and additional levy of 35% totaling 70% while paper boards and machine parts attracts a paltry rate of about 5% duty.
The CGC warned that false declaration on imports would, henceforth, be liable to outright seizures without the option of paying
the shortfall after issuance of Demand Notice (DN).
He warned that Customs officers should cease issuance of DN on imports falsely declared, adding that officers found wanting will be promptly sanctioned.
He also disclosed that the infraction will be thoroughly investigated while Customs officers found to have compromised their positions in the matter will be made to face a 5 year jail term.