BY JOE APU The long awaited signing of a new Super Eagles Technical Adviser has been finally laid to rest with the Nigeria Football Federation and Gernot Rohr sealing a two –year contract.
According to reports monitored on thenff.com, the simple ceremony at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja saw NFF President Amaju Pinnick and General Secretary Mohammed Sanusi signing on behalf of the Nigeria federation, in-between Rohr’s own signature.
Pinnick told thenff.com that the agreement is for two years, with the former German defender, who also coached top French club Girondins Bordeaux and elite Tunisian side Etoile du Sahel, handed a target of qualifying the Super Eagles for the 2018 FIFA World Cup finals in Russia. “We are happy that this has been sealed and we can now focus on other arrangements for the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifiers starting in October,” said Pinnick.
Rohr, clad in a simple shirt and jean trouser and wearing a smile, said: “I am enthusiastic to get to work. This is a big challenge because Nigeria has big players everywhere and has the ability to do well internationally.
“I have a German heart – the heart of a winner. I have confidence that with the right atmosphere and the right support, the Super Eagles have the capacity not only to qualify for the FIFA World Cup, but get to the latter stages of the competition.”
Rohr, 63, will step out with the Super Eagles for the first time when Nigeria host Tanzania in a 2017 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in Port Harcourt in a few weeks. Although the match is a dead rubber as both teams are out of the running for the tournament, it serves as a test game for the Eagles ahead of the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifier away to Zambia on 3rd October. Nigeria will also play Cameroon and Algeria in the qualifying race.
Officials confirmed to thenff.com that Coach Rohr is scheduled to embark on VIP scouting immediately, which includes flying to Spain to watch the NPFL All-Stars play against Atletico Madrid and Malaga in Cadiz on Friday, in the Trofoe Carranza tournament