By Chukwudi Enekwechi THE decision of the Federal Government to partner with Innoson-Kiara Academy to empower youths through skills acquisition is a welcome development. It shows that Nigeria is poised to rejuvenate its economy. The partnership is expected to create opportunity for the reinvigoration of the latent abilities of our youths to be creative, productive and make meaningful contributions to the nation’s industrial growth and development.
As things stand, the Innoson-Kiara Academy has started collaborating with relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies, as well as state governments, in training of youths in the acquisition of various skills. For example, the Academy is partnering with the Federal Government Amnesty Office to train about 200 ex-militants in the areas of  Automobile    and Plastic manufacturing.
While the training in automobile manufacturing will be undertaken at the multi-billion naira Innoson Vehicles Manufacturing Plant located in the industrial town of Nnewi, Anambra State, the skills acquisition programme in plastic manufacturing will be carried out at the Innoson Industrial complex at Emene Enugu.
It is instructive to note that there are numerous benefits accruable from these skills acquisition programmes. While the knowledge to be acquired in the automobile sector will enable the beneficiaries maintain and possibly manufacture new vehicles, depending on their deft application of the knowledge acquired, those who gain skills in plastic manufacturing will be able to make chairs and tables, as well as kitchen and toilet wares.
Definitely, with strict discipline and proper application of the skills acquired from the Innoson-Kiara Academy, Nigeria will have a bright future as the youths can become industrialists, investors, manufacturers and employers of labour.
It is important to point out that the notable economies of the world such as USA, UK, Germany, Japan and others place high premium on the innate abilities of individuals and their productivity rather than university degrees and diplomas which do not in any way increase output or enhance productivity in industrial societies.
In these days of economic recession and paucity of foreign currencies like the dollar and pounds sterling, it makes common sense to conserve scarce resources by training our youths locally, especially at the Innoson-Kiara Academy, which is widely acknowledged to be of international standard and suitable for our local needs.
Apart from the Amnesty Office which has already commenced partnership with the Academy, the Ministry of Labour and Productivity has, in realisation of the value-added advantage derivable from promoting productivity in the country, started discussions with the Academy on areas of mutual cooperation.  Based on this, it is expected among other things that the Ministry will collaborate with the Innoson Academy in the certification of its graduates, and the training of Nigerian youths in automobile maintenance and manufacturing, as well as the reactivation of skills acquisition centres nationwide.
In the same vein, the Minister of Youths and Sports of the federation, Mr. Solomon Dalung, on his visit to the Innoson Academy training centers at Nnewi and Enugu, commended the Chairman of Innoson Group, Chief Innocent Chukwuma, for his foresight, vision and patriotism, which led to the establishment of the Innoson-Kiara Academy. Meanwhile, the Ministry will partner with the Academy to train Nigerian youths to equip them with relevant skills which will help them to be gainfully employed and contribute meaningfully to the development of their various communities and the country at large. That the Innoson Group was able to provide such an enabling environment for the realisation of President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s vision on youth empowerment is a commendable mark of patriotism.
It is vital to stress that the plastics processing factory in Enugu and the vehicle manufacturing company at Nnewi serve as workshops and production units for the practical experience of the trainees.
This partnership will doubtlessly lead to the empowerment of Nigerian youths as they will have the opportunity of utilising their acquired skills and knowledge to improve their lives and impact on the society.
It is also necessary to extol the patriotic disposition of the Minister of Labour, Dr. Chris Ngige, his youth affairs counterpart, Mr. Dalung and the Buhari administration generally for their support to local companies like Innoson with a view to improving the lives of Nigerians. This trend portends signs of worthy legacies the Buhari administration intends to bequeath to the youths of Nigeria and necessary support should be given by all stakeholders. President Buhari’s single-minded determination to give Nigerian youths hope through empowerment programmes can only be actualised with the cooperation of private sector organisations like Innoson-Kiara Academy which has a track record of successful and beneficial partnership with other Federal Government agencies.
It is on record that Innoson was the very first Nigerian company to venture into automobile manufacturing and this led to a revolution in the industry. At the last count, over five local automobile companies have followed Innoson’s example by establishing assembly plants locally.
Obviously, this has contributed to reduction of unemployment as those jobs that ordinarily would have remained abroad on account of unrestricted importation of wholly-made vehicles are now being done  by Nigerians.
Of note, also, is the reduction in capital flight. The government, in this era of capital flight, needs to focus more on utilising the services of organisations as Innoson-Kiara Academy. Let the relevant ministries, departments and agencies of government quickly key into the opportunities being offered by organisations such as the Innoson-Kiara Academy in the interest of Nigerian youths.
nEnekwechi writes from Abuja via
Kwechis19@yahoo.co