By Aidoghie Paulinus and Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa MILITANTS and pipeline vandals within Arepo, Ogun State and parts of Lagos State, have reinstated their commitment to surrender arms to the Federal Govern­ment. Leaders of the Ijaw mili­tant group, Forest Soldiers and Adaka Boro Last Born, General Agbala, told Daily Sun in a telephone inter­view that they were purely agitators and not kidnap­pers. The Army, Air Force and the Navy, last week em­barked on an aerial bom­bardment to rid the Arepo area of Ogun State and parts of Lagos State of crim­inal elements. The operation which also involve the Police, the De­partment of State Services (DSS) and the Nigeria Se­curity and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), has re­corded substantial numbers of casualties. Agbala who spoke partly in pidgin English in the wake of the ongoing bom­bardment of the areas, said he has been doing his best to rid the area of criminal elements, saying that kid­napping has never been in his line. He said a visit to Ogun State would re­veal that he had in the past handed over a man named Ototo to the police, Bishibi­shi and other boys. According to Agbala, “something like kidnap­ping, armed robbery, I am not involved. But na some bad people dey spoil my name up and down. Na im make me dey vex,” Agbala said. Speaking on their inter­action with the government delegation that visited their camps, Agbala said the visit took place last year and he was the one who received the officials. Agbala said they told the government delegation that they had no problem what­soever with anyone, even as he stated that they had since been waiting for the implementation of the ne­gotiation before the ongo­ing crisis started. On how to put an end to pipeline vandalism, Agbala said the government del­egation requested that they stop vandalizing pipelines so that they would be given contract to secure the pipe­lines, some would be sent to school, while others would engage in vocational train­ing. Asked to distinguish between vandals and mili­tants, particularly where his group belong to, Agbala said even though they are in Ogun and Lagos States, they are of Ijaw origin, re­instating the Federal Gov­ernment’s assurance to em­power them. Corroborating Agbala’s submission, the General Secretary of Forest Soldiers and Adaka Boro Last Born, Honourable Omomoh, said they have always been as­sisting government in rid­ding the areas of criminal elements, saying they made some arrests in the past which the State Anti Rob­bery Squad (SARS) in Ogun State can testify to. While noting that a lot of casualties have been recorded in the ongoing bombardment of the areas, including innocent civil­ians, Omomoh said the un­folding scenario seemed as if everybody has gathered to fight the Ijaw nation be­cause of its resources. “We are still waiting for them. We are always loyal to the government, but the casualties recorded are too high,” Omomoh declared. Meanwhile, the Joint Force, Operation Delta Safe (ODS) has allayed the fears of people in the Niger Delta region over any possible break of law and order. The Commander of the ODS, Rear Admiral Joseph Okojie who spoke in Yena­goa, Bayelsa State vowed that the military would not abdicate its responsibilities to protect the territorial in­tegrity, lives and property in the region. While dismissing threats by those he stated have no social base, he assured ODS with its multi agency com­position is capable of nip­ping any security situation in the bud. According to him the political and security lead­ership in the country are in support of the operations of the ODS in the Niger Delta region. Okojie said Niger Delta is safe and enjoined people to go about their normal business.