There is something distinct about Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku that stands him out of the rest of his colleagues in the governor’s forum. Governing a state as diverse as Taraba is no picnic, especially in testy times as these. But the Taraba State helmsman appears to have a deep sense of the call to duty and appreciation of the job at hand. Fortunately, for this architect and former university teacher, the governorship of Taraba doesn’t seem to be a mere political preoccupation. It goes beyond politics as far as he is concerned. From all indications, it is clear that he is on a mission to etch his name on the sand of time and project to the world what grit and hard work can accomplish. So, when he recently declared that his soul and spirit were always in Taraba, even when he is out of town for official engagements, it is obvious it came out of somewhere really deep. The governor sees Taraba as his main launching pad to the rest of the world. For him the phrase “charity begins at home” rings true and real. Thus, apart from physically spending a huge part of his time in Taraba, he invests his daily thought on how to move the state forward.
There are even talks  among aides that Darius hardly discusses anything else other than Taraba issues. A family member confessed to this writer that the governor appears to be fixated on one topic only: The rescue agenda designed to move Taraba forward. The governor himself gave this hint in a recent side chat with this writer when he said: “I’m almost getting obsessed with this project because I wake up everyday to the huge potentials of this state. I know this can be one of the most progressive states in Nigeria. The God-given potentials are just too much not to propel us to development.”
He is, however, not the cockeyed optimist oblivious of the road blocks to the kind of state he desired to see. He tells me he is aware of the enormity of the task at had.
“Unity,” he said at a parley I attended recently, “is at the heart of the matter. Without holding hands together in this state of diversity, we may not make it.” Governor Ishaku doesn’t just stop at rhetoric. He takes the matter further. In various meetings with stakeholders, he stresses the need for peace and harmony. This is paying off well because, to his credit, many of the warring groups have since embraced togetherness. Now, it is noteworthy that this unifier is married to a Tiv woman. Not many understand the import of this. But for a state like Taraba that once became a byword for Jukun/Tiv internecine wars, this union at that level becomes a symbol for interethnic bond. There was a time in Taraba when Tivs from the state felt detached. Although successive regimes in the state have been making the effort at unity, the coming of Darius Ishaku helped in cementing the two tribes like never before. Marriage apart, Governor Ishaku and his Benue State counterpart, Governor Samuel Ortom, all were colleagues as ministers in the government of President Goodluck Jonathan. Leveraging on this relationship, Ishaku has been able to work towards interstate cooperation. The result has been awesome.
Ancient squabbles have since disappeared. Commerce between Benue, Taraba and Plateau State has quadrupled in volume because of minimised risks. Although there are still danger points, crime has been reduced to the barest minimum. For a state of over 80 groups, tribes here feel a sense of affinity with one another more than before. The First Lady of Taraba State, Barr. Ann Ishaku, has also joined in the effort for unity, as she continues to use her motherly skills to enhance mutual trust and respect amongst the citizenry.
But beyond using his family links, Governor Ishaku has achieved unity in Taraba through personal examples. Religion has always been a thorny issue in Taraba. Not anymore. The governor has continued to convince all the groups that he is committed to their welfare. He tells me one time that his background supports his mindset. “My family,” he said, “is evenly divided among the religions. I have Muslims, Christians and traditionalists in my lineage. It is, therefore, difficult for me to discriminate on that basis. I have an uncle who is practically like a father to me. He is a Muslim. So, no one can tell me to be at loggerheads with any Muslim because that would be like asking me to fight my family.”
During the Ramadan period, Ishaku leads by example by breaking the fast with Muslim faithful. He also ensures that provision is made for the indigent to break their fast. At Sallah, he spends the celebration with them in Takum, his home. By his general disposition and utterances laced with laughter and maturity, Ishaku has encouraged an atmosphere of tolerance between the diverse groups.
Above all, Governor Ishaku has fostered peace through the provision of the dividends of democracy: road infrastructures, welfare of workers, healthcare, education, agriculture and all the other stride. Meeting these needs has meant the prudent usage of public funds. So, the governor had to block many drainpipes in the state’s economy. More funds have been saved with this even as his critics like to complain about his frugality.
There is no doubt that Taraba is a project in progress. But in the architect, the structure of the state is steadily getting built with authentic materials. The unity, development and progress currently being recorded is the product of that hard work. • Barau, a public affairs commentator, contributed this piece from Jalingo. 