From Abdullah Tsoho, Dutse On its process of investigation, the  Jigawa state House of Assembly said it may soon invite two former Jigawa State governors, Alhaji Sule Lamido and Alhaji Saminu Turaki, to defend themselves on allege illegal withdrawal of N13 billion from the 27 local government accounts in the state.
The Speaker, Idris Garba drop the hint yesterday shortly after the Committee on  Public Account presented the report before the House.
He explained that the chairman of the committee and deputy speaker,  Ahmed Maikudi, compiled all the needed facts on suspected unjudicial spending of N13 billion in the ministry for local government in the fast administration.
“Initially, the house constituted the investigation panel to investigate the sum of N8 billion. In the cost of investigation, the committee came across another N5billion suspected be misused in the ministry. So far, four of the former commissioners who served in the ministry have appeared before the committee and information is being gathered and compiled,” he said.
“we resolve to proved the former administration because of the present administration efforts to bring the lasting solution on embezzlement of the public fund by corrupts public and civil servant” he said.
The speaker also said some commissioners were invited, they appeared before the committee and evidence against them for the suspecting embezzlement had been presented to them to depend them selves. Apart from the commissioners, permanent secretaries and other senior officers worked in the ministry were also invited.
“If it warrant to invited the former governors, and who ever person no matter of his postion we will invites him to come. Constitution give us that power and we will not hasted to enjoy the power in accordance with the provision of the constitution on the interest of the people in the state”, the speaker emphases.
He therefore dismissed that accusation by the opposition that the investigation is politically motivated, adding that “we are here on the manted of the people in the state for a purpose to put thing in the right place at a right time for the benefit and progress of the state and common men”.
END