From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi. AT least, two pensioners who joined thousands of others colleagues to protest the non payment of their 11 months pensions, yesterday, slumped at the premises of the Gov­ernment House, Makurdi. The old and feeble pen­sioners slumped after walk­ing over one kilometre from the Wurukum Roundabout to the Government House. They would have died but for the quick intervention of their other colleagues who rallied round and resuscitat­ed them. The angry pensioners car­ried placards bearing dif­ferent inscriptions such as: “This is not the change we voted for”, “We cannot feed ourselves any longer”, “ Or­tom fulfill your campaign promises”, “Our members are dying, our children are not attending school”, “We are unable to buy our drugs” among others. State Chairman of Pen­sioners, Elder Peter Kyado told newsmen that they were protesting the 11 months pension owed them from No­vember 2014 to April 2015, adding that it was the period every worker in the state, ex­cept pensioners, benefitted from the bailout funds from the Federal Ggovernment. Elder Kyado, in his speech presented on his behalf by Mr. Peter Shawon, also de­manded settlement of out­standing gratuities, increase in pension allowances that have not been harmonised since 2001, restoration of first line charge status for pensioners as promised by the government to ensure regular and timely payment of monthly pensions. While regretting alleged neglect and abandonment of pensioners by the Samuel Ortom’s administration, Kya­do listed challenges confront­ing the pensioners to include inability to meet the basic needs such as food, shelter, clothing and medication. He lamented the continu­ous death of his colleagues as a result of non-payment of their pension, stressing that no week passes without news of the death of at least four or five pensioners across the 23 local government areas of the state. “Pensioners live in penury without their entitlements and benefits being paid for several years. No explana­tions are forthcoming from the state government. Per­haps, we are powerless, frag­ile and now worthless. We consider this treatment un­fortunate, unconstitutional and perhaps irresponsible.” The pensioners main­tained that they have sever­ally written to Governor Or­tom, the Head of Service, Mr. Adaikwu Inwanta as well as other relevant stakeholders to step into the issue of their unpaid benefits but regretted that nothing had been done to solve the problem. The chairman wondered why the governor who pro­fesses Christianity decided to turn his back on them after they voted massively for him during the last general elec­tions. He described as mere radio propaganda, claims by the state government that N400 million was released for monthly payment of pen­sioners entitlements. At this point, Shawon be­came emotional and wept profusely while reading the Chairman’s speech, a devel­opment which also made many of his colleagues who listened to him to also join him as they wept profusely regretting their plight.