By Osazua Omoruyi WE were incredibly disillusioned and disturbed to the point of imagining that the seeming political bust was already short-living our common dreams for Edo State.
Not a few grieved and were rattled as we waited for the end with bated breadth.
So many questions bogged the mind then. And as we wondered over the likely consequences of the development on the forthcoming governorship election, the reality of what it may result in stared at us coldly in the face.
Amid this apprehensive situation, I was clinging on one thing which was the fact that only an unreadable leader or leaders, would bring down the house they built.
This was the dilemma of the average Edo indigene while the differences arising from the outcome of the governorship primaries in the state lingered.
Indeed, discerning minds would question why majority were that bothered when the central figures were the politicians-who are mostly famed for being selfish. But the truth is that Edo is a different political turf, whose actors hardly resort to politics of brinkmanship in times of personal disagreements. Whether this distinguishing quality is believed or not, mattered less for most of us who are knowledgeable of Edo politics right from the Mid-West and Bendel days.
The Edo man would always express his displeasure over any unfavorable situation no matter whose ox is gored. That is our distinguishing trait which is  concomitant with the known active spirit of Edo people. Perhaps, that largely played out after the All Progressives Congress primary.
Interestingly, the aftermath of that brief period showed Nigerians that we are one people united by the common goal of making our state a better place.
From the disposition of our amiable governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to his resourceful deputy and even our capable governorship candidate, Godwin Obaseki during that period, it was simply unambiguous that what mattered was Edo.
Now, consider this scenario which attests to how even in the midst of grievances, the interest of the party was paramount.
First to be met in the fence-mending exercise by Obaseki was Odubu. He was visited by Obaseki, his campaign director general, Mr. Ogie, and some leaders of APC. At the meeting, the deputy governor was said to have given his words to his visitors that he will not leave the party, pledging that as a true party man, he is ready to work for the party and its candidate in the September 10 election.
Odubu, reportedly, assured that what was paramount now was ensuring victory for the party and its candidate.
Odubu advised Obaseki and the party leaders to quickly move to reconcile aggrieved party members, especially the victimised ones.
Another team, comprising the governor and the state working committee, also met with the deputy governor and other aggrieved persons.
To me, that was quite of significant impact in our political culture, where most aggrieved parties often resort to defection, violence and other kinds of anomaly that end up making the scene unequaled for most actors.
The Edo scenario also showed that most of the issues that people term party crisis were only just internal disagreements among people of common interest. This line of thinking was even earlier pointed out by the Aminu Masari-led APC Committee on the election thus:  “The result of the election is a clear indication that the APC in Edo State is strong and united contrary to the falsehood earlier peddled in the media that Edo State APC was in crisis.”
Therefore with the three attributes of  patience, perseverance, and commitment being elevated to the peak in Edo, one is not in doubt that the Obaseki team commands the goodwill of the people ahead of the elections.
However, that significant edge should not be a reason for us to relent and say it’s Uhuru already. The situation rather challenges every stakeholder in the Edo project to up his or her game for the ultimate prize, which is an Obaseki victory.  Yes, our imminent victory is not debatable, the prize is ours because the APC candidate understands the pulse of Edo people and has the capacity to lead positively.
Therefore, if anyone tells you about any “Simple Agenda” (Ize-Iyamu’s campaign slogan), your response should be Edo has a better choice in Obaseki.
•Osazuwa, a human rights activist writes from Benin City.