…Demands review of employment policy President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba,  has cautioned Nigerians to resist  external forces working hard to break up the country.
According to him,  “most countries” are unhappy that Nigeria is the giant of Africa, and will therefore be happy to see the country disintegrate.
Wabba, who made the appeal yesterday at  the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Forum in Abulja , said the country’s size, population and natural endowments are assets that many other nations are envious of.
“It is in unity that our strength lies as a country. We are today the giant of Africa; most countries are not happy with that. They will do anything possible to undermine our national interest and also work towards the disintegration of Nigeria.
“That is a fact, and we see that as we travel around the world. Even within the committee of unions, people are envious of Nigeria. We must not forget how people said Nigeria was going to break by 2015 and you must not forget that they are still working on that.
“They are still funding all manners of things and trying to see that Nigeria does not actually have peace; it is deliberate. There is no resource today in the world that we do not have; they see us as a country that is blessed without measure,” he said.
He expressed optimism that the current security challenges and agitations “being fuelled and funded by forces determined to undermine Nigeria” would be surmounted.
“Our position is that we will not canvass the issue of cannibalising Nigeria into segments for any reason or any consideration,” he said.
Wabba added that some African countries are concerned that if anything happens to Nigeria, their own fate becomes uncertain.
“Therefore, it is in our own collective interest as Nigerians — because we do not have any other country — to continue to show the light and perspective for others to see.”
Wabba called for a review of the educational curriculum and the employment policy to make it all inclusive, in view of the current unemployment rate in the country.
“If you look at the challenge in our system now, especially the issue of unemployment, it has assumed a very frightening dimension where a lot of our youths, who are able and well educated, have not been able to find something doing.
“I think there has been a convergence of ideas that there is a need to actually review our employment policy that will be inclusive; that will also be able to create jobs and those jobs can be sustainable.
“So, I quiet I agree that we have a lot to do in respect of reviewing our policy on employment to try to make it all inclusive.
“It doesn’t have to be white collar jobs; I think we can also to look inwards to try to look at other avenues.
“I am happy that the new on policy on agriculture which Federal Government is driving, towards encouraging our able bodied youths to go into agriculture; may be something that can be considered.’’
Wabba underscored the importance of providing the enabling environment for youths who are interested in agriculture and sourcing market for their produce.
He added that the aspect of agro-processing should also be explored as a way of creating employment for youths. 