This is statement credited to our President, Muhammadu Buhari. It is straight from the heart. This should be considered his final word on the subject of the cancer that has spread to the entire fabric of the country’s body
“And with advertised impunity, those given trusts betrayed them, those given public offices abused them; and majority of those given guardianship over any matter of significance compromised their positions. It has become so bad that it is looking as if there are hardly any honest people left.  At the same time, the culture of hypocrisy has also been perfected. Everybody, including those perpetrating fraud, complain, as if the fraudulent practices that exist are committed by extra-terrestrials from outer space.
Yet this society, that is complaining is the one that should be squarely blamed. No other society to my knowledge tolerates such outrage, while our own positively encourages it. Nowhere else in the world can one find a society tolerating the theft of its precious resources in broad daylight with nothing happening to the thieves. A day in office, as far as the general public is concerned, often means eight hours of converting public resources to private purses. Few societies seem to reward embezzlement with “honours” as does ours.
Instead of putting rascals on trial we put them in positions of leadership in the community, in the cities, in the states and in the whole country. Is it therefore any wonder that we are at this impasse, perplexed, bewildered and at a loss? A society that rewards criminal behaviour and applauds the display of a vicious mindset, is yet to embark on the path of honour and reform of its affairs.
Where we go from here depends entirely upon what we make of the current situation. -President Muhammadu Buhari.
Reaction
I am now 68 years plus. I have been following your articles in the papers since mid 1970s or earlier. It will be nice if you can put the recent ones, in the last 20 or 15 years or all, in a booklet. Either paper cover or hard cover, for us and the younger ones to learn from. ‘My Early Life’ by late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo; and ‘Thinking With You’ by renowned thinker, late Tai Solarin, shaped my life: from a petrol pump attendant in mid sixties, to a Grade 2 Teacher, NCE Teacher, Accountant(Bsc.) From Unilag, Retired as a Government Secondary School Principal, in Ikeja, heart of Lagos. Carry on with inspirational, philosophical, thoughtful and matured articles. Matured minds and leaders of tomorrow are reading. Thank you. adetjd@yahoo.com
RE: THE RESURRECTION OF APALARA
I begin with a confession. I am neither a Christian nor a Muslim. I am also not a traditionalist. I am an Agnostic, and for that I do not pray to any God, god or goddess. All religions have a human origin. But as a disciple of J.S. Mill, I believe strongly in the exercise of freedom of religion, freedom of expression and all other civil liberties. But Mill himself drew the limit – interference with other person. In his essay On Liberty , he had written inter alia: “The liberty of the individual must be thus far limited: he must not make himself a nuisance to other people.”
I do not have all the facts except what one reads in the newspapers, which might itself be hearsay. But it does appear that Mrs. Eunice Elisha was attacked in the vicinity of a mosque, and that was not the first time she went there. Now, if it were the case that Eunice was fond of standing at the entrance of a mosque, possibly with a loudspeaker and telling Muslim devotees inside the mosque or entering the mosque that unless they repent and follow Jesus Christ, they would end up in hell fire; would that not be a nuisance to the Muslim worshippers? Certainly it would be. However, that will not justify any group taking laws into their hands, but it could be provocation, as you mentioned. As an Igbo man born and bred in a Christian milieu, I still get invitations to attend churches – for weddings, thanksgiving, child dedication etc, etc. I honour these invitations without believing in the efficacy of the prayers said, but even then, I do not make derogatory commentaries about what they do. At appropriate fora outside the churches, I state my position. Christian leaders spitting fire over the murder of Mrs. Eunice Elisha may do well to use this opportunity to admonish their members not to be a nuisance to adherents of other faiths. It is encouraging that unlike other commentators on this, you did recognize that certain preaching could amount to provocation.
Regards, Bar. Amaechi Onwualu, Awka. 08036748262 Dear Mr. Adeniyi, Thank you for always speaking out even when the country seems to be peopled by those you have rightly described as “deaf and dumb ”. We are so religious yet we are known as ‘fantastically corrupt’ people! May God help us. Your piece “The resurrection of Apalara” is insightful. I did a series just recently on “The World And The Sons Of Ishmael” on my blog, www.kingsleykaduru.com. Below is an excerpt:  An average Muslim, after being taught, probably by an Imam, who himself, unfortunately, was misinformed, will go to any length in ‘defending’ his religion. This is why many see Islam as a religion of violence. And most Islamic nations are not helping matters either. Take this for an example. Bangkok Post in its 8th of January, 2015 publication, under the heading “Brunei bans Christmas public displays”, writes, “A statement from the Religious Affairs Ministry received by e-mail said publicly displaying festivities of religions other than Islam “can be seen as propagation of religions other than Islam.” It continues, “It cited Section 209 (1) of the Shariah Penal Code order, which states that “any person who propagates religion other than the religion of Islam to a Muslim or to a person having no religion is guilty of an offence.” “If found guilty, violators could be fined up to B$20,000 (500,000 baht), imprisoned for up to five years, or both.” These are the kind of statements and laws that give credence or drive many to believe that Islam is violent in nature. And finally, every religion is simply a search – a search for God, the Supreme Being. According to James 1:27, “Pure and genuine religion in the sight of God the Father means caring for orphans and widows in their distress and refusing to let the world corrupt you.” (New International Version) Killing and maiming in the name of religion is ‘corruption’ and that brings your claim to practicing ‘pure’ religion, into question. Pure and genuine religion means caring for orphans and widows and not producing or turning people into orphans and widows. God bless you.  Have a blessed week, Sir. Kaduru Uche. Nigeria’s commanders-in-chief
Sir,Your last article is as educative and insightful as usual,but i am afraid i don’t think Nigeria is ready to do anything without Niger Delta oil.It is crystal clear that our so called leaders have a mindset that without the oil, Nigeria is doomed. Secondly,when you were mentioning terrorist, militants and non militant groups in Nigeria ,you left OPC militants out.Has the group moved to the next level?  –   Mark, ogbonnaya ogwo <ogbonnayaogwo78@gmail.com> 