From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Four persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of former chairman, Oyo State House of Assembly Committee on Information, Public Relations and Security, Mr. Gideon Aremu, representing Oorelope state constituency.
Commissioner of Police, Mr. Leye Oyebade, who disclosed this yesterday, said the Intelligence Response Team of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Ibrahim Idris and detectives from the state command made the arrest possible.
Aremu was shot dead by gunmen that rode on a motorcycle that trailed his car to the entrance of his residence at Alakia, Ibadan, at about 9.00p.m on Friday, July 1.
Wife of the deceased’s lawmaker was out to open the gate for him when they accosted him and shot him dead.
Governor Abiola Ajimobi, also placed a N5 million ransom on the three gunmen.
But Oyebade, who immediately the incident occurred ordered thorough investigation into the matter and deployed human and material resources to carry out an intensive manhunt for the culprits, said in a statement: “Refer to the gruesome murder of Gideon Aremu on July 1, 2016 by some gunmen who made away with his Samsung duo phones, and some money, I wish to inform you that four suspects have been arrested in connection with the crime.”
Prior to his assassination, Aremu was to bag a doctorate degree in Mathematics and Statistics from University of Ilorin in July and had collected graduation gown and invited his follow legislators and friends for the convocation. … Fresh crisis looms between RTEAN, NURTW members From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Fresh crisis may be brewing between members of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) and National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Oyo State.
At the weekend, members of RTEAN vowed not to allow NURTW trample on their rights. Members of the two groups had three weeks ago at Iwo Road interchange, Ibadan, engaged in a gun duel over collection of fees and control of motor parks in Ibadan.
Commissioner of Police, Mr. Leye Oyebade, reportedly convened a peace meeting where leadership of both transport unions signed a peace accord with the police.
RTEAN Chairman in Ona Ara Local Government, Mr. Nureni Idris, who spoke on behalf of other members, alleged that NURTW had displaced RTEAN from their motor parks in the 11 local government areas in the state.
Idris, in a petition to the police commissioner, alleged that members of RTEAN are currently moving about in groups for fear of being attacked by NURTW members. He alleged that a chairman of the drivers’ union in the local government had been threatening RTEAN members. He appealed to Governor Abiola Ajimobi to prevail on members of NURTW to vacate the RTEAN motor parks.
In a telephone chat with Daily Sun yesterday, Secretary of NURTW in the state, Mr. Akin James, said RTEAN was economical with the truth, adding that as at 2012 when he was posted to the state as secretary, RTEAN was not operating in any motor park, except Bodija in Ibadan, where a group – Binukonu, described as an affiliate of RTEAN was operating and the group still operates in the place till date.
He explained that RTEAN came up later and claimed that its members established some motor parks about 25 years ago, hence they wanted to re-possess the parks, saying what drove them out of the park was still shrouded in mystery.
James said Governor Ajimobi intervened and asked NURTW to allow RTEAN to operate, adding that three parks at Samonda, Idi-Ose near Moniya, and Ojoo, were conceded to RTEAN.
According to him, soldiers drove RTEAN away from Ojoo on the grounds that the military would not allow such park in the place because of its closeness to the entrance of the 2 Division of Nigerian Army.