IT was hardly surprising last week when the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, announced the restructuring of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) into five semi-autonomous entities. The five entities, he said, are to be run as businesses with emphasis on efficiency and profit. If any sign was needed that the NNPC had to be restruc­tured, the allegation that $20 billion of its revenue could not be accounted for was an eye opener. And, this charge came from the then Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Lamido Sanusi.
The Senate, stung by the scandal, investigated the cor­poration, and came up empty-handed. Even after an interna­tional auditing firm was hired to conduct a forensic audit, there was still uncertainty regarding the amount of money that was missing from the coffers of the corporation. This sad situation subsists till this day.
The corporation has now been split into what looks like its nat­ural components – Upstream; Downstream; Refineries; Gas and Power; and Ventures, with two service units identified as Finance and Accounts; and Corporate Services.
Apart from the initial protests by the National Assembly and the labour unions which ap­pear to have now accepted the idea, the restructuring is seen by many Nigerians as an idea that is long overdue. The NNPC has over the years exhibited all the traits of a flabby, oversized and uncontrollable behemoth that had become too large for its own good. This is not merely because it recorded a $1.3 bil­lion corporate loss last year. It is also because it had become engulfed in scandals, corporate greed and graft. Worse still, it was grossly inefficient and bad­ly in need of an overhaul.
The appointment of Dr. Kachik­wu has been considered one of President Muhammadu Bu­hari’s best efforts to bring san­ity and common sense to the corporation. Being an expert in the oil industry, Kachikwu seems to have impressed not only the National Assembly. He sounds credible and honest to Nigerians when he discusses the affairs of the corporation. However, he should have avert­ed the initial protests against the restructuring by consulting with the National Assembly and the oil industry unions be­fore making the reorganisation public.
Now, he faces the ultimate test: changing the corporation and making it efficient and profitable. In place of a cess­pool, he must bring corporate good governance. In place of an opaque, secretive adminis­tration, Nigerians expect trans­parency.
The corporation has been unwieldy, now we expect a slim-fitted organisation that is responsible in its actions and accountable to those it serves. The NNPC should ensure that all petroleum products are available throughout the coun­try, all year round.
We believe that the Ministry of Petroleum Resources is in good hands. But, until Nigerians can drive into a petrol station and buy fuel and kerosene without hassles, and there is enough affordable gas for cooking and to power our turbines, they will continue to wonder whether this restructuring is not another fast game played on the coun­try.