By Obinna Kalu ANY time the history of Ajayi Crowther University, (ACU) Oyo will be written, the name, Dr. Mrs. Josephine Oyebanji, will cer­tainly not just be mentioned but celebrated. Precisely, on January 1, 2006, this great woman mounted the saddle as the foundation Registrar of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo. Today, March, 31, 2016, she will gracefully bow out as the Registrar of the University, af­ter successfully completing her second term in office. Born on November 12, 1952, she at­tended St. Michael’s (Anglican) Primary School, Omupo from 1958 – 1963; St Clare’s (Anglican) Grammar School, Offa from 1964 -1968; Queen Elizabeth School, Ilorin for her Higher School Cer­tificate from 1969–1970. In 1970, she won the John F. Kennedy essay competition. She obtained a B.A. in English with Dis­tinction from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, U.S. A in August 1974; an M. A in English from the Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, U.S.A in December 1976; and a PhD in Literature in English from the University of Ilorin, Ilorin in March, 1999. From 1973 – 1974, she enjoyed the For­eign Students’ Scholarship at the Univer­sity of Michigan and from 1975 – 1976, the Graduate Assistantship in the Department of English, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti. In 1977, she joined the services of the University of Ilorin, Ilorin as an Assistant Lecturer in the Department of English. She started her University Administra­tion Career in 1979 when she joined the Registry of the University as an Assistant Registrar. She rose through the ranks to become a Deputy Registrar in October 1997. At different times in the University, she was the University Examinations Of­ficer, a Faculty Officer, the School Secre­tary at the Post-Graduate School, and the Academic Officer. She also served as Secretary to various University Boards/ Committees and was a member of vari­ous Committees and Associations among which were Students Welfare Board, Ceremonials Committee, Committee on Strategic Planning, Student Disciplinary Committee and Unilorin Press Manage­ment Board. She was the first Chairman of the Unilorin Branch of the Association of Nigerian University Professional Ad­ministrators (ANUPA). In January 2006, she became the Foundation Registrar of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo and has since been per­forming the functions of the Chief Ad­ministrative Officer of the University and providing leadership for the Registry. Dr. Oyebanji is a Christian of the Anglican faith. She is married to Prof. J. Oluwole Oyebanji and is blessed with children and grandchildren. The legacies that Dr. Oyebanji is leav­ing behind in Ajayi Crowther Universi­ty, Oyo, can hardly be enumerated. It is on record that she assumed duty as the Registrar when the infrastructural and institutional status of the young Univer­sity was next to nothing. Through hard work, commitment, enthusiasm and sac­rifice, she was among those who turned the university into an enviable citadel of learning. On assumption of office as the Registrar, she had no official car, no accommodation, no office. In fact, for many months, she conducted the affairs of the Registry from the Council Cham­ber, lived in a cottage hotel, while a pick-up van was designated as her official car. Only a few University Registrars in Nigeria today would have tolerated that poor working condition. As a goal getter, the harsh working environment she met did not deter her from performing. Thus, step by step, with God and determination to succeed, she started building a vibrant and sustainable registry. Today, the result is there for everybody to see. This is a very big lesson to public office holders in our country today, especially in higher institutions. Leadership should be seen primarily as an opportunity to add val­ue to the system and one’s organization instead of a chance to seek comfort and play demigod. Dr. Oyebaji’s professionalism and com­petence as a Registrar will linger for many decades to come. She carried out the duties of the office of the Registrar as if she was trained as an Administrator in her mother’s womb. She never toyed with punctuality to work. It is usually not common to see prin­cipal officers of Universities report to work daily at 8.00 a.m. But, Dr. Oyebanji broke that record. Throughout her stay as the Reg­istrar, she did not report to work beyond 8.00 a.m, except when officially permitted due to some exigencies. Today, she is bequeathing a responsible registry staff who understand that time is the soul of business. Her style of administration was anchored on planning, accountability, fairness, reward, excellence, hard work, due process, sanctions etc. She delegated tasks, and ensured that her team members know what to do and when it needed to be done. She was able to commu­nicate effectively, whether in writing or ver­bally. She gave clear instructions that pro­moted optimum efficiency and teamwork. She commanded respect from both teaching and non-teaching staff. Dr Oyebanji is a good encourager who wants her subordinate staff to succeed. She celebrated her staff ac­complishments, more than her own. Thus, she succeeded in building team spirit and cooperation rather than encouraging an un­healthy level of competition in the registry. Her positive attitude greatly influenced the whole workers’ spirits. Most times, she put whatever problems she had aside, and acted in a cheerful manner with the staff. The entire students of ACU will definitely not be in a hurry to forget Dr. Oyebanji and the value she added to their lives. Definite­ly, her strong stance on discipline was dis­liked by those students who have penchant for misconduct. But for those who cherish a better tomorrow, her “iron hands” in han­dling their cases will be greatly missed. No matter who you are, or where you are com­ing from, she made sure that the students’ code of conduct was neither compromised nor treated with levity. As a loving mother, and the custodian of the University laws and regulations, she used her position to ensure that students’ discipline was not compro­mised. Some bad habits that are common in vari­ous higher institutions like shabby dressing, exam malpractices, drug and alcohol con­sumption, cultism, rape, destruction of prop­erty, absence from lectures, etc are near ab­sent in ACU due to the zero tolerance shown by the management of the university to these misconducts. Unlike other University Reg­istrars who are seen by the students only on special occasions like freshmen orientation, matriculation and convocation ceremonies, she took time to interact with the students. In fact, she frequently holds Bible Studies and Sunday services with them and even visits the female students in their hostels. Many successful ex-students of the universi­ty cannot forget in a hurry the contributions of Dr. Oyebanji in building their characters. The Statutory organs of ACU like Senate, Council and Board of Trustees, no doubt, re­ceived tremendous secretarial services dur­ing the tenure of Dr. Oyebanji. She managed and coordinated the secretariat of these bod­ies effectively and efficiently. The endorse­ment/confirmation of her proficiency as a University Administrator by the like of Pro­fessor Emeretus O.O. Akinkugbe, Professor Emeritus Ayo Banjo and Professor Emeritus Ayo Bamgbose did not come as a surprise, given her antecedents. It is also on record that Dr. Oyebanji maintained cordial work­ing relationship with relevant stakeholders like the Nigerian Universities Commission (NUC), Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), West African Examinations Council (WAEC) etc. The University’s host community, Oyo town, and the Church of Nigeria Anglican Communion, will surely remember the good works of Dr. Oyebanji. I wish to join ACU Community, family, friends and associates of Dr. Oyebanji in congratulat­ing her and wishing her a happy retirement. I also welcome the new Vice-Chancellor and Registrar of the University and wish them suc­cessful tenure in office. . Dr. Kalu, a Legal Practitioner, writes from Lagos   