 By Zika Bobby General Overseer of Galilee Christian Center in Lagos, Prophet Williams Onuoha has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to redefine the change he promised Nigerians in other to move the country forward. Speaking to Daily Sun in Lagos, Onuoha said the people are unhappy at the slow pace the change is going, saying that the country is operating in a reverse mode. “If the government of President Mohammadu Buhari is truly sincere with the change they promised the people during campaign, nine months is enough to start seeing the signs. But what the people are getting instead is hardship of biblical proportion. Electricity situation is getting worse by the day, no fuel, dollar soaring to record high, prices of food stuff on the rise. In fact, daily living is becoming too difficult to bear. This is not the expected change. Mr President, please change,” he said. Excerpts: President Buhari’s leadership style The Lord says I should tell President Muhammadu Buhari that a true leader falls in love with the people he leads, just as the people fall in love with their leader. That the way he is going about it, that if care is not taken, between now and 2017, Nigeria is going to experience something terrible. As a president, it is wrong to paint your country bad in the eyes of the world. He pays more attention to what happens outside than what happens in his country. The United States will never say America is bad to the world no matter how bad the situation For example, if there is shooting anywhere in the US, the president immediately leaves every other thing and flies to the scene. When the people see him, they are reassured. Did we see something similar from our president during the Mile 12 crisis? No. The fight should not just be on corruption alone. Nobody is saying the president should not fight corruption, but you shouldn’t fight corruption and watch your people live in extreme poverty. Even in the countries he has visited, they are not devoid of corruption. Of what use is the fight against corruption when the people don’t have electricity, fuel, water, healthcare, and food? You don’t just wake up one morning in a country where its people find it difficult to survive and tell the people that you have ban certain items without prior notice. It’s like telling the people go to hell. Nigerians are complaining daily, irrespective of political affiliation, tribe or religion. Businesses are at a standstill, and this government that promised change is in its ninth month. The Lord says to tell him, it is time to get serious or get out. Whatever happens to this country whether good or bad affects the whole of Africa. If you look at the map of Africa, Nigeria is at the trigger. This is a country that others look up to. So it is time for Mr President to work and fix this nation. He should talk to the people directly, listen to them, feel their pulse, know what they want. This is the only way the country can achieve the much-expected change. No change can come if the people are not carried along. He should address the nation; let the people know what this government is up to. He should stay more at home and work to achieve results. Soon the West will get tired of the numerous trips once they see that results are not forth coming. Nigeria of 1984 is not Nigeria of 2016. The president should know this and begin to act like a democratically elected president rather than a military leader. Change in the states Almost all the states have changed for the worst. Salaries are not paid and workers are suffering and dying in their numbers. Even the bible says a labourer should be paid his wage. For example, look at what Imo State is going through today. The people are not represented at the local level. There have not been local government election for a while now. Now tell me, how are the people represented. The gap between the government and the people is widening everyday. The state is drifting. I had told the governor months back that the only way for the government to achieve 100 percent success in the state was when it meets with the people regularly. The people voted for the government of the day, so to achieve success, the people need to play a vital role in government. But when you leave the people behind, you cannot achieve success. This is how governments fail. The rich are getting richer while the poor are getting poorer. They sold change to the people but they are not ready to change to deliver change. The people are unhappy. They should know that when the poor no longer have food on their table, they would eat the rich. So there is no hiding place for the rich unless true chance comes. Call for Biafran State It’s on record that Biafra fought before Chechnya and today they have their independence. The Biafran people have every right to fight for independence in as much as it is done in a non –violent way. I call on the president, Olusegun Obasanjo and T.Y Danjuma to join hands together and release Nnamdi Kanu from detention. Keeping him in detention will not solve the problem at hand. Dialogue remains the key to resolving the issue at hand. The Biafra issue is something that has come to stay and ignoring it only makes it dangerous. Let the Federal Government call for dialogue with the people so as to resolve the matter as quickly and peacefully as possible. Putting Kanu in prison will only cause more problems. When someone keeps complaining, you don’t put him in prison. Rather, you listen to him and see how you can solve that problem without recourse to violence. If you travel all over the world, you will discover that they’re more Igbo in prison just because they are looking for greener pasture. The people have suffered greatly and need to be heard. Proposed religious censor bill I saw it in 2014 that a government would come that would try to fight religion. Kaduna State is just the springboard. There are other states waiting to kick-start in their various states. But the Lord said they would not succeed. No matter what you think you are, it is God that put you there, so you cannot be greater than that God. Kaduna will soon experience the hand of God with this new proposed bill, if it is not reversed. No man can stand the wrath of God. I see more killings in Nigeria that would come in the guise of religion. These are issues the president should look at and find ways of nipping them in the bud. Nigeria is sitting on a keg of gunpowder. We, as men of God will not relent in praying for this nation and her leaders and I know that by His grace, this nation would be great again.    