 To mark the 2016 World Book Day, Sahara Foundation, a subsidiary of Sahara Group, said it would be embarking on a Book Drive to amass books that can be sent to children in Internally Displaced Persons camps and other high need areas.
A statement from the organization said the Book Drive is in keeping with Sahara Group’s policy of Personal Corporate Social Responsibility (PCSR), adding that, its organisation’s staff volunteers will give out books and make cash donations towards the purchase of books for students of Bethseda School for the Blind. A statement from the organisation’s spokesman, Bethel Obioma said the Sahara Group, a leading Energy conglomerate, has its sights on championing the cause for a world full of books that can be accessed by all, especially the less privileged across the globe.  He said that this vision has been the thrust of Sahara’s literacy and empowerment projects at its various locations as the energy giant continues to support education and capacity building activities among children and youths. Sahara dreams of a ‘Book World’; one that resonates with Plato’s submission: “Books give a soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and life to everything.”  In 2016, the Group’s Corporate Responsibility organ, Sahara Foundation plans to engage in sustainable projects that will improve the reading culture of children as well as improve their learning environment. One of such projects involves the quest to donate over 50,000 books and set up 10 rural libraries in selected rural communities and public schools in Benue State. This initiative to make books more accessible to more children and youths will be replicated in Sahara locations globally and other areas with the support of strategic partners. Sahara Foundation launched the ‘Read to Me’ School Project in 2014 to promote a reading culture amongst children. This initiative, which is spearheaded by staff members who serve as volunteers, encourages reading for knowledge and leisure. Sahara Foundation in 2015 upgraded the library at the United Mission College (UMC) Primary School, Ibadan and also provided the library with books to enrich the minds of pupils. The foundation also refurbished and equipped a Guidance and Counselling Centre for Eko Akete Senior Secondary School, Lagos Island. The Centre effectively serves the academic, psycho-social, and career needs of the students. The dream of a greater tomorrow can be sustained by continuous empowerment of the leaders of tomorrow. Sahara Foundation, through various interventions and strategic partnerships has shown a relentless commitment to building capacity and improving lives through the power of education and a reading culture. Sahara believes its dream of a ‘Book World’ is achievable and will sustain its quest until a “book happens to every human on the planet.” 