FROM PAUL OSUYI, ASABA THERE were uncontrol­lable tears yesterday at the home of the slain corps member, Samuel Okonta in Illah, Oshimili North Local Government Area of Delta State when the Di­rector General of the Na­tional Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig. Gen. John­son Olawumi paid a condo­lence visit.
Okonta, a graduate of Political Science from Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State was gruesomely murdered by unknown persons during the re-run election in Riv­ers State last Saturday.
The eldest sister of the late corps member, Mrs. Victoria Akpa who wept uncontrollably told report­ers that the boy suffered too much to graduate and that his death was shocking to the family.
“They stabbed my heart. They killed me,” Mrs. Akpa said, adding that “his (Okonta’s) father died in 1993, the mother died in 2015. I have been taking care of him. No relation helped us. Everybody ran away but we managed until he graduated.”
Earlier during the visit, Olawumi who expressed sadness over the incident, vowed that the killers of the corps member must be fished out and made to face the consequences of their action.
Accompanied on the visit by the Delta State Co­ordinator of the scheme, Mrs. Olive Essien Etukudo and other senior officials, Olawumi assured that the management of NYSC would not abandon the family in time of grief as it would participate actively during the burial.
The Director General who explained that the de­ceased had finished his as­signment at the polling unit and was going home when he was shot dead along with two others by un­known persons later signed the condolence register.
“It is so sad that you were cut down in the pro­cess of serving your na­tion. Myself, the entire management and staff as well as all members of the corps nationwide are deeply grieved by your death. I promise that I will not relent until we ensure that those who keep you silent forever are brought to book. Adieu Samuel and RIP,” he wrote in the con­dolence register.
Chief Chikwenye Mad­uku who responded on behalf of the family amid tears, said they have put in so much to train the slain corps member, adding: “we can only pray for the repose of his soul.” 