Nigeria’s Muntaqa Umar-sadiq has been honoured as the 2016 Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum (WEF)—an international organization for public-private cooperation committed to improving the state of the world.
By this selection, Muntaqa joins a community of past Young Global Leader (YGL) honourees that include David Cameron, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom; Chelsea Clinton, Board member of Clinton Foundation; Larry Page, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Google, USA; Mark Zuckerberg, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Facebook, among others.
Klaus Schwab and John Dutton, Executive Chairman and Head respectively of the Forum of YGL in a statement explained that the honour bestowed each year by the WEF recognizes and acknowledges the most outstanding young leaders from around the world for their professional accomplishments, commitment to society and potential to contribute to shaping the future of the world.
“This honour is bestowed by the World Economic Forum each year to recognize the most distinguished leaders under the age of 40, nominated from around the world”, they explained further.
Umar-sadiq comes to the table with impeccable pedigree as a young graduate of the University of Cambridge, England and Imperial College School of Medicine in London, and also a holder of Chartered Alternatives Investment Analyst (CAIAI) charter.
He is currently the CEO of the Private Sector Health Alliance, and prior to this position, he was the Senior Technical Advisor to the former Minister of State for Health in Nigeria, Muhammad Ali Pate and commenced his career as a healthcare M & A investment banker at Morgan Stanley in the UK where he focused on the Healthcare & Pharmaceutical sector.
Together with business and public sector leaders in Nigeria, including Aliko Dangote, President/CEO, Dangote group; Muhammad Ali Pate; Jim Ovia, chairman, Zenith Bank; Aig Imoukhuede, President, Nigerian Stock Exchange; Kelechi Ohiri of HSDF and other corporate leaders, Umar-sadiq has led a pioneering work that has developed a Private Sector Health Alliance.
The pioneering work has also catalyzed a model convergence platform for leveraging private sector innovation, capabilities and impact investments to complement government’s efforts in reaching millions of women and children in Nigeria to advance health outcomes.
His selection and recognition by WEF are anchored on his record of professional accomplishments, commitment to society and potential to contribute to shaping the future of the world through leadership and, according to Schwab and Dutton, as an honouree, Umar-sadiq has been invited to become an active community member of the Forum of Young Global Leaders for a period of five years.
“The community forms a unique global network of peers from diverse backgrounds and fields with a highly visible opportunity to significantly impact world affairs and shape the global agenda. Your five year experience is accompanied by a community manager representing the Forum of YGL who will identify unique and personalized opportunities for you to engage”, the forum said.