President Jacob Zuma has been invited by President Muhammadu Buhari to visit Nigeria next week.
Mr. Zuma is expected to visit Nigeria from March 8 to 9. “During the State Visit, President Zuma is expected to address the Joint Session of the National Assembly of Nigeria and will, together with President Buhari, address the South Africa-Nigeria Business Forum,” the South African Presidency said on Wednesday in a statement. South Africa and Nigeria have good bilateral political, economic and social relations underpinned by strong historical ties dating back from the years of the liberation struggle. “The two countries conduct their bilateral relations through a structured Bi-National Commission (BNC) established in 1999 and have thus signed 34 bilateral agreements including memoranda of understanding, which are coordinated through the BNC covering a broad range of areas, including trade and investment, science and technology, immigration and consular matters, defence, agriculture, the environment, energy, as well as arts and culture,” the South African presidency said. To date, there are over 120 South African companies doing business in Nigeria in various sectors, including telecommunications, aviation, tourism, banking, property, retail, entertainment and the fast food, the statement said. “With its large population and vast natural resources, especially oil and gas, Nigeria is South Africa’s key trading partner on the continent, providing significant opportunities for its exports and investments and is ranked 7th in terms of South Africa’s total trade in Africa,” the Presidency said. Mr. Zuma will be accompanied by his country’s Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, Minister of Trade and Industry Rob Davies, Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba, Minister of Energy Tina Joemat-Pettersson and Minister of Mineral Resources Mosebenzi Zwane, as well as a South African business delegation. (Source: SA NEWS) 