…Threatens to cripple Nigeria From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha THE Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has, again, threatened to cripple Nige­ria through series of protests if its leader, Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, who has been in de­tention since October 2015 is not released.
The group said if the Fed­eral Government fails to re­lease Kanu unconditionally, it will resume suspended protests across the country, which they said paralyse the country’s economic ac­tivities, adding that govern­ment should not see their quietness as cowardice and fear.
A statement by IPOB’s Media and Publicity Sec­retary, Mr. Emma Powerful asked the federal govern­ment to explain why they are still holding on to Kanu and two others since they don’t have reasonable wit­nesses against them in the court.
“We have endured; we will start the protest that will bring the Nigeria gov­ernment to its knees. We stopped protests not out of cowardice and fear but, to show maturity and profes­sionalism in what we are doing and to allow the fed­eral government release our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu unconditionally.
“In line with his contin­ued detention, we allowed the government to take de­cision and possibly release the man who did not com­mit any crime.”
IPOB blamed President Buhari’s advisers and al­leged that they deliberately mislead him on the ambit of the law which led to the continued detention of its leader, even after court has granted him bail.
“The president’s advis­ers, who don’t want him to release our leader and those sycophants in his govern­ment waiting for his down­fall are somewhere waiting to laugh at him and they will be the first to cast him…
“Biafrans are ready for what is to come; we are winning the battle.
“The protest going on around the world is still in progress and we, in Biafra­land, will not stop until our leader is released uncondi­tionally.
Biafra is a spirit that pos­sesses those who are chosen people of Chukwuokike abiama (God Almighty).”
The group also raised the alarm over plans for the Buhari-led administra­tion to Islamise Nigeria through his policies and programmes and urged Christians to rise against it to stop law against preach­ing in some northern parts of the country.
“We are calling all cler­gymen and women, bish­ops, priests, pastors and men and women of God that this is the time we take our destiny in our hands. Nigeria is not a Muslim country.
“We are calling on world Christian leaders and Christian countries to come to our rescue, otherwise the people of God will be ex­terminated in the surface of the earth,” IPOB said. 