By Ayo Alonge ayhalliday@ yahoo.com MY name is Omolara Fa­vour Emeka. My fans call me Favour Sax and that was how I derived my stage name. My father is from Abia State but my mum is from Osun State and that’s why I have Yoruba and Igbo names. I am the second child in a family of five. I started profes­sional music when I was 10 years old and now I am 12.
I didn’t choose music by accident, I was born into it. It started with my late maternal grandpa, Mr Akinlabi Olawore. After his death, my uncle, Tunde Olawore took over from him. My aunt too is into music and I can say that it runs in the family.
My major challenge at the moment is that most times, I am asked to put in extra time when I play especially when I thrill my audience very well.
Managing schooling and my career has not been that easy, because all the days are fixed. I have home lessons for some days and my music rehearsals too are there. But in all, God has been faithful. Anytime I am done with playing, people do come around me to make good comments.
I have a lot of mentors. People like Kunle Ajayi, Mike Aremu, BJ Sax, Hezekiah Sax, Solomon Sax, Ola Sax, Kay Sax and Em­manuel Sax are all musicians I always aspire to be like.
I don’t wait to earn money when I play. I just do my job and my joy is in the fact that I am a minister in God’s vineyard. I am always very happy to minister to people with my sax. Many people depend on human beings for reward but for me, I don’t because I believe that it’s only God that can reward.
If I was not a musician, I don’t know what else I could have been because I was born into it. I would say my grandfather laid the foundation for me. My elder brother started playing the keyboard at age six and I started when I was 7.
I want to be known and remembered for my legacy. Let people say that’s Favour Sax, a young talented instrumentalist who does the work with so much passion, without waiting for anybody to reward her.
My latest album is titled Wonder. I did it as a response to my fans’ demand and I think it is time to drop a new one. This new video is my second video. The first was titled Oba. If you watch the video, the man I featured is a wonder on his own. I am a wonder on my own and so is my family and everybody around me.
In terms of support, I get 100 percent support from my parents, especially from my mum.
In the nearest future, God willing, I want to tour the world, ministering to people with my sax and telling them how God has been faithful.