•Charged with abduction, rape From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa The man in the eye of the storm, Yunusa Dahiru, claimed ownership of 14-year-old Ese Oruru’s  pregnancy yesterday. A defiant Yunusa, for the first time since Ese’s release from his stronghold in Kano, told newsmen they were lovers with her mother in the know. He also alleged that he had been intimate with Ese before he took her to Kano. Yunusa insisted to newsmen he is not guilty of abducting Ese to Kano. The accused said this after he was arraigned before Justice Hyeladzira Ajiya Nganjiwa of the Federal High Court in Yenagoa and, thereafter, opened up on his relationship with Ese. In a brief interview at the court premises,18-year-old Yunusa, who had some air of confidence around him, affirmed he is responsible for the five-month-old pregnancy. While declaring that he has handed over the case to Allah to vindicate him, he reiterated that Mrs Rose Oruru, Ese’s mother was aware of their love relationship. The brief interview in pidgin English went thus: The Sun:  Sanu Yunusa Yunusa: Nagode The Sun: Why you take the girl go Kano? Yunusa: She say she love me and she said she go follow me to Kano. The Sun: Na you give Ese belle? Yunusa: Na me get the belle. But I hear about the belle from police. Dem say it is five months. The Sun:  Why you no tell the mama and papa say you dey take Ese go Kano? Yunusa: The mother know say we dey go Kano. But the father no know. The Sun: You dey sleep together for here in Yenagoa or na Kano? Yunusa: We dey do am here. The mother know. Earlier, police slammed a five-count charge against Yunusa at the Federal High Court, Yenagoa for Ese’s abduction. Yunusa, who was arraigned amidst tight security, was charged alongside one Dankano Mohammed and Mallam Alhassan, both at large, in charge No: FHC/YNG/17C/2016. Appearing very calm and unruffled, Yunusa pleaded not guilty to all the five charges after he told the presiding judge, Nganjiwa, that he understands a bit of English. The charge reads: That you, Yunusa Dahiru ‘m’, of Opolo- Epie, with Dankano Mohammed ‘m’, Mallam Alhassan ‘m’ presently at large, between the months of August 2015 and February 2016, at Opolo- Epie Yenagoa, in the Yenagoa Judicial Division of the Federal High Court, did conspire among yourselves to commit an offence to wit: Abduction and, thereby, committed an offence punishable under sections 27(a) of the Trafficking in persons (prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act 2015 “That you, Yunusa Dahiru’m’ of Opolo-Epie, between the months of August 2015 and February 2016, at Opolo- Epie Yenagoa in the Yenagoa Judicial Division of the Federal High Court abducted one Rita Ese Oruru ‘f’ aged 14 years by means of coercion, transported and harboured her in Kano state and, thereby, committed an offence punishable under section 13 (2) (b) of the Trafficking in persons (prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act 2015 “That you, Yunusa Dahiru’m’ of Opolo- Epie, between the months of August 2015 and February 2016, at Opolo- Epie Yenagoa in the Yenagoa Judicial Division of the Federal High Court induced one Rita Ese Oruru ‘f’ aged 14 years by the use of deception and coercion to go with you from Yenagoa to Kano State with the intent that she forced or seduced you into illicit intercourse and, thereby, committed an offence punishable under section 15 (a) of the Trafficking in persons (prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act 2015 “That you, Yunusa Dahiru ‘m’ of Opolo- Epie, between the months of August 2015 and February 2016, at Opolo- Epie Yenagoa in the Yenagoa Judicial Division of the of the Federal High Court, procured one Rita Ese Oruru ‘f’ aged 14 years and subjected her into sexual exploitation in Kano and, thereby, committed an offence punishable under section 16 (1) of the Trafficking in persons (prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act 2015 “That you, Yunusa ‘m’ of Opolo- Epie, between the months of August 2015 and February 2016, at Opolo- Epie Yenagoa in the Yenagoa Judicial Division of the Federal High Court had unlawful carnal knowledge of one Rita Ese Oruru ‘f’ aged 14 years without her consent and, thereby, committed an offence contrary to section 357 of the Criminal Code Act and punishable under section 358 of the Criminal code Act, Cap C.38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.” Prosecution counsel, Kenneth Dika and James Anata told the court that they had lined up six witnesses to testify against Yunusa. He also told the court that they have agreed with the defence counsel, Kayode Olaosebikan, for accelerated hearing on March 14. Justice Nganjiwa adjourned the case to March 14 for hearing and for the defence to move the bail application. He ordered the accused to be remanded in police custody. Olaosebikan, in an interview, said the onus is on the prosecution to prove that Yunusa abducted Ese to Kano. According to him, Yunusa has pleaded not guilty because he knows he is innocent of all the charges against him. Olaosebikan who insisted that the case was that of two lovebirds who decided to elope to Kano stated that the defence is ready for the trial to prove Yunusa’s innocence.  