From Juliana Taiwo- Obalonye, Abuja and Paul Osuyi, Asaba PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has described the death of the first civilian gov­ernor of Delta State, Olorogun Felix Ibru, as sad.
In a statement by his Spe­cial Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari extended his sincere condolences to the Ibru fam­ily, Urhobos whom he led for many years as president gen­eral of the Urhobo Progres­sive Union (UPU) and the people of the state.
Buhari said he joined them in mourning the late governor and distinguished senator who made remarkable contribu­tions to the progress and de­velopment of Nigeria during his long career as an illustrious architect, businessman, politi­cian, community leader and philanthropist.
In similar fashion, immedi­ate past governor of the state, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan de­scribed Ibru’s passage as sad. He, however, said the former governor lived an unblem­ished, rewarding life worth emulating.
“Though it is sad to lose a patriot like Ibru, we are com­forted by the fact that he set the stage for the new Delta as the first civilian governor of the state. Even though his regime was truncated, he was an unrepentant patriot who, as senator, worked tirelessly to ensure that the unity of the country was non-negotiable.
“I recall with nostalgia, his role and fatherly interventions in our peace agenda as presi­dent general of UPU where he brought to bear his charac­teristic humility,” Uduaghan stated.
On his part, John Oguma said Ibru’s death was a big loss to the Osadjere family of Ovwor-Olomu in particular, Urhobo nation, Delta State and Nigeria as a whole.
“You know, the mother, Chief Ometegor Ibru is a daughter of Osadjere; we are cousins. He was a source of inspiration to many of us,” Oguma added.
For the Urhobo National­ity Council (UNC), news of the death of their first civil­ian governor was “a rude shock.”
UNC National Leader, Jaro Egbo said Ibru’sdeath, described was “a great loss to the Urhobo nation which he led at a point; to Delta State where he served as the first executive governor; and to the nation where he served as senator. Urhobo nation will miss his counsel and advice.”
Ibru died on Saturday at a Lagos hospital after a protracted illness. He was from Agbarha-Otor in Ughelli North Local Gov­ernment area.
He also represented Delta Central senatorial district between 2003 and 2007.