BY DAMILOLA FATUNMISE THEY are young and ambitious and have suc­cessfully emerged from the shadows of their suc­cessful parents who in years past called the shots in the Nigerian entertainment industry.
Today, Entertainer brings you Nigerian artistes taking after their parents.
Femi Kuti and Seun Kuti
When late Afro beat maestro, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, passed on in 1997, it was a shaky moment for Afro beat fans across the globe as there was fear that his passing could sound the death knell for Afro beat, the genre he created.
Today, 19 years after, his sons, Femi and Seun are taking the genre to a new heights. On his part, Femi Kuti has garnered four Grammy nominations and has performed at the biggest music festivals across the globe and released over 10 albums with his band, The Positive Force. In fact, Femi has been christened the King of Afro beat. Seun, on his part has been hanging in there and to date, he has released two albums and is currently working on a third while he tours the globe with his late father’s band, the Egypt 80 Band.
Yul and Linc Edochie
Yul Edochie and his brother, Linc are two young men taking after their dad Pete Edochie, and you can’t ignore them! Ever since his Nol­lywood debut in 2005 in The Exquires, alongside the Late Justus Esiri and Enebeli Elebuwa, Yul has never looked back starring in blockbusters like Wind Of Glory alongside Genevieve Nnaji and Desmond Elliot. Today he has starred in a lot of movies and is one of Nollywood’s most sought after male faces. Meanwhile, Linc, his brother though has taken a break for now for personal reasons is expected back in the industry soon.
Angel Ufuoma
After over 20 active years of acting and pro­ducing with appearances in over 100 movies, Nollywood pioneer and actress, Tina Amuziam has distinguished herself in the industry and now, her lawyer daughter, Angel Ufuoma, is poised to take the legacy of the Vice Chairman of the Delta State Tourism Board to new heights. Angel has produced several entertainment projects and has starred in top Nollywood international productions including Tony Abulu’s Doctor Bello alongside Hollywood and Nollywood super­stars including Isaiah Washington, Vivica A. Fox, Genevieve Nnaji, Stephanie Linus, her mum, Tina Amuziam and Rachel Oniga. Angel also recently co-produced and starred in the international blockbuster, Superstar. She is currently in produc­tion for her own TV Sitcom 30 and Single due to hit African and US airwaves in September 2016.
A graduate of Law, Angel has also featured in leading movie roles like Devil in Red and Stolen Treasures starring alongside Clarion Chukwurah, Yul Edochie, Chief Eddie Ugbomah and Prince Jide Kosoko among a host of others. It is obvious that the sky seems to be the limit for this deter­mined, vivacious and courageous young lady.
Paul Play
Isaiah Kehinde Dairo aka I.K Dairo, a promi­nent Juju musician who rocked the Nigerian music scene in the 60s and 70s with his band, I.K. Dairo and The Blue Spots must be smiling in his grave. Reason, his son, Paul Play has kept his legacy alive through his music. In the late 1990s, Paul Play got his break when he remixed one of his father’s classics, Mo So Ri Re. Today, he is most celebrated for his 2005 album, Angel of My Life.
Darey
The act known as Darey needs no introduc­tion. Though he had been a popular OAP for a couple of years, he finally stepped out of his father’s shadows during the maiden edition of Project Fame Africa in 2004.The Son of Modupe Arthur Alade aka Art Alade, a famous Nigerian highlife/jazz artiste in the 60s and 70s has carved a niche for himself as an artiste with a unique style. With a couple of albums to his credit, he has serenaded music lovers with hit tracks like Not The Girl, Style Na Style and Follow Me Go among others.
Honey B
Like father like daughter aptly describes the case of Kwam 1’s daughter, Honey B. The Afro pop singer is already following in her father’s footsteps and growing a strong fan base at an astronomical rate!
And to prove that she means business, Honey B released her first single, Sempe, featuring her fa­ther a while ago. And to make sure she succeeds, Honey B went all the way to study music at the The Brit School of Performing Arts in the UK. Word is rife that she is currently in the studio recording her debut album.
Femi, Tope, Sadiq and Rilwan Adebayo
One family dominating the Yoruba movie sec­tor of Nollywood is the family of Adebayo Salami aka Oga Bello. Four of his kids have followed him into the make belief industry and they are not doing badly. Femi, the most prominent among them is a lawyer, producer and actor and is one of Nollywood’s most sought after faces starring in movies like October 1, Ayitale, Atónà and Omo Pupa among others. Tope is a computer scientist, actor, producer and marketer. Sadiq is a geologist, actor, producer and director, while Rilwan who also studied Computer Science is an editor and producer. There is no gain saying it, the Adebayos who are natives of Kwara State are creating a last­ing legacy in the movie industry.
Barry Showkey and Modinat Asabi
Ever since his father’s death, Wale Akanji Bar­rister aka Barry Showkey, a fuji musician and son of late Sikiru Ayinde Barrister has been at the forefront of the fight to make sure his fa­ther’s legacy does not die. And he is not alone, his sister, Modinat Asabi Ademola aka Barrymade, an Islamic fuji musician is also taking after her dad musically.
The ex-Kennis Music act now based in the US is the leader of Mr Fuji Memorial Band, a platform set up in honour of his late dad, while Barrymade, who hit the limelight after featuring her father on her debut album many years ago is equally doing well in the entertainment industry.
Sheff B
When both of your parents are musicians, you probably have no choice but to follow in their footsteps. That aptly describes the story of one of Nigeria’s fastest rising rappers, Sheff B. Ever since he hit Nigerian screens last year in a track in which he featured his musician mum, the profile of the rapper known as Sheff B has been on the rise. The Rick Ross look alike is the son of two of Nigeria’s music legends, General Kolinton Ayinla and Queen Salawa Abeni.
General Kolinton Ayinla is one of founding fathers of fuji music, while Salawatu Abeni is one of the most popular waka musician. The rapper is known for his hit single, Collateral.
Safin De Coque
Darlington Akanite aka Safin De Coque, son of late high life legend, Oliver De Coque is one man determined to take his father’s legacy to the next level. A while ago Safin brought alive the memory of his father when he released a remix of his father’s 1979 classic, Funny Funny Iden­tity, which he recorded with his father before his demise. The rapper, however says that inasmuch as he would like to be seen as a replica of his father, he is determined to carve a niche for himself
In an interview he once said: “I’m a rapper and I had started even before my father died. I’m not one of those who want to remain under the shadow of their fathers. I want to create my own identity. I’m proud to be Oliver De Coque’s son and everything he was noted for while alive but I play a different genre of music.”
Sunkanmi Omobolanle
Sunday Omobolanle aka Aluwe is no doubt a force to reckon with in Nigerian entertainment circles. Obviously one of Nigeria’s most famous comedians, he is also a director, producer and a prolific writer and he’s the father of Sunkanmi Omobolanle, a young, fair complexioned, dynam­ic actor who has been keeping it real alongside his father in the industry. Sunkanmi no doubt has carved a niche for himself. He is known for mov­ies like Gongo Aso, Olaide Irawo and Elulu Tofajo among a host of others.
Oge Kimono
For Oge kimomo and Ras Kimono, it’s a case of like father like daughter. Oge Kimono who plays reggae music is surely taking after her father. The guitarist and singer has released a couple of singles to date including Drum and Bass. She has also played on numerous stages across Europe and Africa and one of her influences is reggae legend, Bob Marley. Sources say she is currently working on her debut album.
Dr. Sid
For a long while, nobody knew that Mavin act, Dr. Sid was the son of late actor, Justus Esiri. Hav­ing carved a niche for himself in the music scene in Nigeria, Dr Sid branched into movies a while ago and just like his dad, he is giving a good ac­count of himself with his delivery in a movie he starred in a while ago entitled Last 3 Digits.
Sola and Abidemi Kosoko
The gift for acting definitely runs in Jide Ko­soko’s family. Two of his daughters, Sola Kosoko- Abinna and Abidemi are already making waves in the industry. Sola who has been acting since 1986 kicked off her career professionally in 2001 in a movie produced by her father entitled, Omo Olorire, which brought her into the limelight. Abidemi Kosoko’s second daughter has featured in three English soap operas to date.
Adelaja Ogunde
Chief Hubert Adedeji Ogunde has been de­scribed as the father of Nigerian theatre for obvi­ous reasons. His contributions to film and theatre in the Nigerian space cannot be overemphasised and today, one of his sons, Adelaja Ogunde is tak­ing after him.
Femi Jacobs
His parents, Olu Jacobs and Joke Silva have influenced and mentored generations of Nigerian thespians so it is only beffiting that one of their kids is taking after them.
Femi Jacobs came into prominence after he playing Makinde Esho in Rita Dominicac’s The Meeting, which also stars Rita Dominic and Jide Kosoko, which landed him a nomination for Best Actor in a Leading Role at the 9th African Movie Academy Awards (AMAA). He also won the award for Best Actor in a Comedy at the 2015 African Magic Viewers Choice Awards (AM­VCA).
Jacobs studied Mass Communication at Lagos State University. He also studied Marketing Man­agement at the Lagos Business School, Lagos and trained as a pilot in South Africa. 