The Federal Government says there is no going back on the Computer Based Tests, CBT, recently introduced by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB. The Minister of State for Education, Professor Anthony Anwuka, who stated this while fielding questions from journalists in Owerri Monday, however advised students to strive to become computer literate in line with the global best practices. “The Computer Based Tests have been institutionalised by JAMB and there is no going back on this policy. Computer literacy is now in vogue all over the world and anybody that decides to deny himself this competency, has himself to blame”, Anwuka said. When reminded that some people have been protesting over the CBT examination policy, the Minister said: “If a student, who goes out there and fails the CBT examination, decides to carry placard against JAMB instead of making concerted effort to be computer literate, that is his business”. Answering a question on the Federal Government’s policy thrust in he education sector, Professor Anwuka said it is science and technology. “The emphasis of the present administration is on science and technology, from the primary to the tertiary institutions. This policy will make the beneficiaries self reliant”, Anwuka said. Continuing, the Minister disclosed that government remains determined to stop the devaluation of the teaching profession, which has been an all comers affair over the past years. “There is an existing law in this country that mandates the Teachers Registration Council to ensure that all teachers must possess professional certificates. It is only in Nigeria that people teaching in our classrooms do not have the basic teaching certificate. People teach with subject area qualification without necessarily having the teaching qualification. The National Universities Council, NUC, has even designed a programme called Post Doctoral Certificate in Education, for university teachers”, the Minister said. He advised university lecturers to realize that there has been serious infrastructural improvements in tertiary institutions, since the establishment TET-FUND by the Federal Government. “Lecturers battled for this and since it has been achieved, what they should now do is shun all manner of distractions and improve their level of commitment to their calling”, Anwuka pleaded.  (Source: VANGUARD)