Ben Dunno, Warri In continuation of its avowed threat to unleash more devastating attacks on oil installations, especially in the upland areas of Delta state, the Niger Delta Greenland Justice Mandate (NDGJM) has bombed the Unenurhie-Evwreni delivery line in Ughelli South/North respectively, operated by Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC).
Claiming responsibility in a statement signed by its spokesman, Gen. Aldo Agbalaja,  the militantssaid the action was in furtherance of the body’s earlier warning to the various multi-national oil companies operating on their land, to be prepared for more attacks unless they re-consider their community relationship policies to reflect positive and transparent dealings with their host communities. The group, therefore, admonished the management of these multi-nationals to heed its advice and commence the process of true reconciliation with its various host communities in the region,, by giving them what rightfully belongs to them in order to bring about the desired peace that would not only sustain operational activities but also guaranty the safety of personnel wherever they are located.
According to the statement, “As a mark of our commitment to a just course and to prove to the wicked and ungrateful multinational oil companies and their Nigerian military allies, who have been forcefully taking our natural endowment, without any visible returns, that we own our lands, the Opudo Strike Team of the Niger Delta Greenland Justice Mandate, at about 0100hour today 29th sept 2016, bombed the Unenurhie-Evwreni delivery line in ughelli south/north respectively operated by NPDC”.
“We want to assure the oil multinational companies that we are determined to end their operations in our lands and this we shall if they fail to show the will to change their relationship with our people and their operational attitude in our lands”, it stated.
The group further noted that, “For the avoidance of doubts, we want to say here, categorically, that no amount of military protection/presence can stop this whirlpool, no amount of shoddily arranged military operation can quell the will of our gallant army.
The same way their Operation Crocodile Smile was sunk by our Operation Crocodile Tears, is how all their schemes against our land and people will continue to be defeated”.
“Like we have said, this will only stop when you turn a new leaf, adopt a sincere attitude, give back to our people what naturally should be theirs, advise the government rightly, stop thinking there’s an army to protect you from justice, do these and all that you know are good. If you do these, be assured to have a good relationship with our people and real protection for your personnel and assets across our lands”, NDGJM said.