The Centre For African Liberation and Socio-Economic Rights (CALSER), today, have penned an emotional letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on the war against terrorism, calling on Governor Babagana Zulum and Borno elders to support the military. In the letter signed by convener Princess Ajibola, CALSER revealed that the governor as well as the political elites in the state aren’t giving enough moral support to the troops on the frontline. At every slightest opportunity, the group disclosed that the Borno leaders criticize the military, ignoring their tremendous sacrifices for the safety and peace of his people. While peace have been restored to neighbouring states, insurgency is on the rise in Borno and CALSER believes this is as a result of the state’s elites deliberately declining in playing complementary roles to the Nigerian military. The group, therefore, besieged on the president to intervene and ask the Borno governor and leaders to provide complementary credible intelligence information to the troops. In situation where this fails to happen, however, CALSER called on the president to declare a state of emergency in the state. The letter reads in part: “The Centre for African Liberation and Socio-Economic Rights (CALSER) wishes to mourn with you, Nigerians, the Borno State Government and the families of victims of recent terrorists’ attacks in Auno, Borno state. We deeply appreciate the overt zeal, determination and commitment on the anti-terrorism campaigns of your administration these past years. Before your intervention in the Boko Haram terrorism scourge, insurgents raged, tormented, devastated and ruined many parts of Northern Nigeria, particularly, Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. Even the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja was not spared its fury and agonies of terrorists. In the last near five years, your tested and vast knowledge in military welfare coupled with the carefully assembled team of Service and Security Chiefs (SSCs), Nigeria has been able to decimate and technically defeat Boko Haram terrorism. Sir, it attracted national and international accolades to Nigeria, yourself and the Nigerian military for this wonderful feat. In fact, even the ardent critics of your Government have repeatedly applauded you on this!  Respite descended everywhere including the Northeast where Boko Haram had firm roots. The launch of the Nigerian Army’s series of clearance operations in the Northeast, the decongestion of IDPs camps and the setting up of the North East Development Commission (NEDC) by your Government are practical signs that normalcy returned to the once troubled region. Painfully though, the unpatriotic activities of politicians in the build-up to the 2019 general elections saw the proliferation of arms and ammunitions and the resurgence of pockets of violence and killings in parts of Nigeria, terrorism inclusive. But the FGN under your leadership has not relented in countering these fresh threats of insecurities and the Nigerian Army is also working tirelessly to rid Nigeria of all forms of terrorism. But why the Nigerian military is doing its best to ensure the country buries the ghost of terrorism, some elites in Borno are working day and night to frustrate your administration from finally eradicating terrorism. And we have noticed that this suspected sabotage is more pronounced in Borno state, the former epicentre of terrorism and where it was birthed and nourished. The political leadership of Borno state and the elites have deliberately declined in playing complementary roles to the Nigerian Military to end terrorism. While sister states like Yobe and Adamawa states are relatively peaceful and secured in spite of resurged Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorism; Borno state has remained a burning furnace on the altar of terrorists.  The momentum Boko Haram has gained in Borno which is seriously competing with soldiers to diminish the successes recorded by your Government in combating terrorism is bothersome. CALSER recalls the words of the Shehu of Borno, HRH Abubakar Gabai when you visited to pay condolence and commiserate with people of the state over Boko Haram’s recent massacres of travelers at Auno village. The monarch bluntly acknowledged that the security situation in the state had once improved until recently when “it has resurfaced.”