The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), federal judicial officers, and State Judicial officers have in the last one year guzzled a total sum of N33.47 billion as emoluments and other allowances, checks by the Economic Confidential has revealed.
The report obtained and computed by the Economic intelligence magazine and shared by PRNigeria, yesterday, showed annual salaries, regular and non-regular allowances of 934 judicial officers in the country, including the CJN.
These include: vehicle maintenance and fuel, Personal Assistants, domestic staff, entertainment and utilities allowances. Others are; Hardship allowance, Outfit and newspapers allowances respectively.
The report also said the CJN receives an annual salary of N3.36 million and like the country’s president, has to be provided with vehicle maintenance and fuelling, domestic staff, entertainment, utilities and newspapers.
Furthermore, the CJN has 25 percent of his annual basic salary reserved for personal assistant and outfit  each or  its equivalent of N840,993.13 respectively an half of his annual salary as hardship allowance which amounts to N1,681,986.25.
However, accommodation and furniture will be provided for the CJN while annual leave, severance gratuity and vehicle loan which is optional will be 10 percent, 300 percent and 400 percent respectively. His duty tour allowance within Nigeria is settled at N50,000 per night, while that of overseas or estacode amounts to $2,000 per night.
Justices of the Supreme Court and the President of the Court of Appeal have the same annual salary of N2.47 million each while Justice of the Court of Appeal, Chief Judge of Federal High Court, Chief Judge of the FCT, Judge of the Federal High Court, President of the National Industrial Court, Grand Khadi of the FCT Sharia Court of Appeal, President FCT Customary Court of Appeal, Chief Judge of States, Grand Khadi state Sharia Court of Appeal and President state Customary Court of Appeal all collect N1.99 million each as annual salary.
Furthermore, judges of the Federal High Court, National Industrial Court, FCT High Court, State High Courts, FCT Sharia Court of Appeal, FCT Customary Court of Appeal, Khadi state Sharia Court of Appeal and State Customary Court of Appeal all get N1.80 million each as annual salary.
All judges in the country, apart from the CJN, have 75 percent of their annual salaries as Vehicle maintenance and fueling, 25 percent for Personal Assistant, 50 percent as hardship allowance, 75 percent for domestic staff, 45 percent for entertainment. Others are: 30percent of their annual salaries as for utilities, 25percent for outfit and 15 percent for newspapers.
As for non-regular allowances, except the CJN, all judges are given 200 percent for accommodation once a year, 300 percent of annual salary for furniture, 10 percent for annual leave, 300 percent as severance gratuity and 400 percent  for vehicle loan, which is however optional.
All justices of the Supreme Court and President of the Court of Appeal are entitled to N35,000 as duty tour allowance per night within the country, while their Estacode is $1,300  per night when they travel out of the country.
Also,  justices  of the Court of Appeal, Chief Judge of Federal High Court, Chief Judge of the FCT, Judge of the Federal High Court, President of the National Industrial Court, Grand Khadi of the FCT Sharia Court of Appeal, President FCT Customary Court of Appeal, Chief Judge of States, Grand Khadi state Sharia Court of Appeal and President state Customary Court of Appeal collect N30,000 as duty tour allowances each within the country and $1,100 as estacode. Other judges outside the above are entitled to N25,000 as duty tour allowances per night, within the country and $800 for estacode when they travel out of the country per night.