By George Aluo Rangers coach, Imama Amakapabo has declared that his side would go for goals when they storm Abeokuta this weekend to face relegated Ikorodu United in a match the Flying Antelopes must win to be sure of lifting the NPFL title this term.
Rangers go into the game on 57 points, a point ahead of second placed Rivers United with just two more matches to the end of the league race.
Amakapabo told Africanfootball.com that with two more matches to go, anything could still happen.
He said his team would play attacking football when they face Ikorodu United with a view to scoring goals which a team needs to win a match.
In his words: “We are away to Ikorodu United next and it is for us to keep our heads on our shoulders and do what we have been doing all season.
It is possible to score goals there, the records have shown that we are the highest scoring side on the road this season and so long as we score goals, we will be able to keep our heads and get the result that we want so that we could achieve our target for the season.”
Rangers last weekend returned to the top of the league table after beating visiting Sunshine Stars of Akure by 2-0 at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium.
Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi had before the game promised to reward the team with N3m cash for every win, even as he ordered the stadium gates to be thrown open to enable the team enjoy total support.
Meanwhile, the management of Rangers, said it was planning to celebrate Nigeria’s 56th independence anniversary with the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) trophy.
Paul Ozor, the General Manager of Rangers said this in an interview with newsmen in Abuja.
Ozor said that it would be an honour guiding Rangers to a successful league title after going trophy less for 32 years.
“A committee has been put in place for the celebration that will follow the team’s league victory.
“The celebration will be like when Chelsea lifted the premiership title in England because the stadium will be jam-packed on the day of the last match.
“There will be road shows and gala night; every good thing one can think of will be on parade that day.
“Enugu cannot wait a night to that last league match because it will seem as if we have already won the league trophy,’’ Ozor said.
He said that arrangement had been made to ensure Rangers fans troop to the stadium to watch the team’s season’s last match free of charge.
“The gate will be thrown open on the final match day because it is a home game against El-Kanemi Warriors of Miaduguri; we are playing Ikorodu in Abeokuta before the last match against El-Kanemi. “We are not thinking of losing the trophy. “We have started putting on our championship jerseys, caps, fliers and so on.”