Eminent businessman and former Governor of Abia State, Dr Orji Kalu  has called on religious leaders to use their platforms to educate their followers on the importance of peace and unity, noting that no tangible development can take place in an atmosphere of chaos.
Kalu said the ideals of Prophet Mohammed should be embraced in our daily lives, adding that Islam preaches love, togetherness, sacrifice, selflessness and alms-giving.
In a statement signed by his Special Adviser, Alhaji Kunle Oyewumi, Kalu said, “it is yet another Eid-el-Kabir, we praise Allah for granting us the grace to witness this year’s celebration.
“It is a season for sober reflection and self appraisal as individuals and as a people.
“In the spirit of the festivity, let us use this occasion to offer special prayers for people at the helm of affairs, especially at this time the country is faced with multi-faceted challenges.
“For the sake of national well-being, the political class must imbibe the acts of selflessness, determination and patriotism in their daily pursuits, not forgetting the fact that leadership is a privilege to serve the people and not for self-aggrandisement and accumulation of ill-gotten wealth”.
The former governor used the opportunity to call on Nigerians, irrespective of party affiliations, to support the President Buhari-led government in taking Nigeria to enviable heights, adding that with the current state of the nation, all hands must be on deck to complement government’s efforts aimed at making life meaningful for the people.
Kalu equally used the occasion to appeal to the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) and other militia groups to sheathe their swords for the sake of peace. He pointed out that the bombing of oil installations in the Niger Delta has crippled activities in the Nigerian oil and gas sector, adding that government is losing huge revenue due to activities of the militants.
He, however, called on government to embrace dialogue as a way of ending terrorism, kidnapping, violence and other social vices in the country.
While wishing the Muslim community a hitch-free celebration, he called on them to extend the  gesture of the festive season to people of other religious faiths.