From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Oyo State has warned motorists, especially commercial drivers, against use of non-effective head lamps in the night and wipers when rain is falling.
The warning was against the backdrop of the concern raised by travellers from Ibadan to Lagos on Wednesday night. The travellers alleged that many of the commercial buses plying Lagos-Ibadan Expressway did not have bright head lamps that would ensure effective movement.
One of the travellers, who introduced himself as Mama Sade, said: “We left Ibadan for Lagos at 6:35pm. The rain started falling from Ibadan Toll Gate until we almost reached Berger. The rain has exposed many of these commercial buses. They don’t have good wipers.  They don’t have good head lamps. See them on the road as they are causing accidents.”
In a telephone chat with the spokesperson of the FRSC in Oyo State, Mr. Seun Onijala, he said: “To address the issue, however, the lead agency in road traffic management and administration saddled with the responsibility of ensuring reduction in the rate of crashes and sustenance of a safe motoring environment, FRSC, has never been lackadaisical with compliance to effective vehicle maintenance which has the capacity to help prevent road traffic crashes.
“On a periodic basis, we conduct an exercise called free vehicle safety check to ascertain the road worthiness of vehicles that ply the roads.”
Onijala stated that free vehicle safety check was conducted in the state on September 10, 2016, and added that the commission has also created synergy with executives of organised transport unions in establishing a task force unit in their respective motor parks in order to inspect vehicles and ensure that maximum safety standard requirement is met.
“This routine inspection exercise is done under the supervision of FRSC officers. We are ensuring adequate public education and enlightenment to sensitise commercial transport operators on the need to ensure effective maintenance.
“Then, effective enforcement to arrest people who contravene those offences relating to sign light violations. It’s a combination of so many efforts that don’t ever end.”