Governor Kashim Shettima has declared Borno State more secured than Lagos State.
He said with the gradual return of peace in Borno state, his government would unfold a developmental agenda in a few months time.
“By the grace of God,  we are poised for a great change. Believe me, in the next couple of months, you will see changes in the fortunes of the people of the state,” Shettima said.
He said the recent successes recorded by the military against the Boko Haram terrorists had made the state capital a safe haven for all Nigerians
“Maiduguri is more secured than even Lagos or Abuja. There are two million people living in Maiduguri;  we celebrated Sallah without any incident,” he said.
Shettima said the government would take advantage of the Boko Haram crisis to ensure better welfare for the people.
“This crisis has accorded us the opportunity to merge small settlements and provide better infrastructure to uplift the living standard of the people.
“This is more especially for those living in remote communities,” he said.
He also disclosed that he abandoned the use of bullet proof cars as an act of sympathy with the suffering masses who had no means of self protection from terrorists.
Shettima stated this yesterday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Maiduguri.
He said the action was also aimed at showing that the terrorists had no super natural powers.
“We have to dare the terrorists; I have bullet proof cars, but I do not use them; I want to be exposed to the elements as the ordinary people do,” the governor said.
He said the bullet proof cars were only kept for the use of visitors who might be afraid to use ordinary cars.
“We have so many bullet proof cars, but we only use them for our guests.
“Sometimes, I drive myself round the town to see things for myself,” Shettima said.
The governor also attributed his numerous achievements in office to dedication and hard work.
“There is no magic for our achievements, except that where there is a will, there is a way; like I always say,  there is no politics better than the contentment of the people.
“You are there not because you are the best among the people of the state;  I am the governor not because of my political sagacity, intellectual prowess, parental back ground or physical strength,” he said.
“…Even within my cabinet, there are many people who supersede me in all these attributes. Power, to me, is a very humble experience;  it is about what you can do to a great number of people within the time allotted to you to pilot the affairs of the state,” Shettima added. Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 