The Guards Brigade skill at arms competition organized to enhance soldiers proficiency in weapons handling has ended in Abuja.
The competition which is also aimed at equipping the soldiers with the basic knowledge on safety precaution, conduct, stripping and assembling of personal and support weapons under difficult situation is part of the brigade’s training program for its personnel in 2016.
The brigade commander, Brigadier-General Musa Yusuf, said continuous training and retraining of soldiers of has become necessary to enable the brigade effectively curb terrorism and other violent crimes confronting the Federal Capital Territory and its environs.
He said the brigade which is tasked with the responsibilities of providing security for the president, his immediate family and other very important persons, is capable of protecting lives and property of residents and visitors alike.
The competition which had all the five units of the brigade participating, witnessed the striping and assembling of FN Riffle, AK47 Riffle, GPMG and Pistol.
7, Guards Battalion, emerged champions at the end of the competition. Robbery suspects nabbed on their way to rob Three robbery suspects who were on their way for a robbery operation have been arrested by men of the Federal Capital Territory police command.
The suspects Monday Ali, 25, Solomon David, 20, and Joshua Ekene, 26, were arrested following a tip-off about their operation during a stop and search mounted by the police along Deidei-Gwagwa road.
The suspects said to belong to a notorious robbery gang and all residents of Karmo, a satellite town in the FCT, were found to be in possession of two locally made revolver pistols, four live ammunitions, two live cartridges, one knife, two extended ammunitions, scissors, two wraps of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp and assorted charms.
Police say the suspects who have since confessed to the crime also confessed to have robbed a motorcyclist at Dei-dei and sold the stolen motorcycle for N25,000 at Benue state.
The suspects who are currently undergoing interrogation at the FCT Special Anti-Robbery Squad for investigating, would be charged to court as soon as investigation is concluded. Pay our 2 years arrears, retired military officers beg FG Retired military officers under the aegis of the ‘Nigerian Legion have appealed to the federal government to pay the two years outstanding benefits owed them.
The chairman of the legion, Captain Musa Yakubu, who made the call during their Annual General Meeting of the legion held at Bauchi, said a whooping 24 months outstanding pension is being owed the ex-soldiers since 2014.
Yakubu, who appealed to the government to speedily make the payment, also appealed to both the federal and state governments to provide retired officers with plots of lands and farm implements to enable them engage in mechanized farming, given the harsh economic situation in the country.
The legion expressed satisfaction with the performance of soldiers and other security agents in the ongoing counter insurgency war in the north east and called on Nigerians to continue supporting them with prayers for them to succeed. End of the road for robbers terrorising Bwari A group of armed robbers who specializes in terrorizing residents of Bwari, in Bwari Area Council in the Federal Capital Territory, have met their end.
The six man robbery suspects, Isaiah Mathew, 26, Lucky Dauda, 22, Endurance Garuba, 22, Ikechukwu Okere, 28, and Forunsho Raphael, 20, are said to be residing in Kabba, Edo, and connive with their partners in the FCT, to carry out their operations.
They were found to be in possession of one locally made pistol, one  live cartridge, one extended cartridge she’ll, three Plasma Television, two Laptops, seven mobile telephone handsets, two wristwatches, one sound system, one impact drilling machine, one cutlass and one jack knife.
parading the suspects before newsmen in Abuja, the FCT, commissioner of police Mustapha Mohammed, said the suspects were arrested by Police operatives attached to Bwari Division while  on stop and search at CGC road Ushafa Village.
He said the gang headed by one Isaiah Mathew, a notorious armed robber was recently released from prison after serving his jail terms formed the six man armed robbery gang.
The police commissioner said that they also arrested the buyers of the stolen property adding that investigation was ongoing to arrest other fleeing members of the gang. 