The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a woman at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, who faked pregnancy with wraps of substances suspected to be cocaine around her stomach. A statement by the agency’s spokesperson, Mr Mitchell Ofoyeju, alleged that the 41 year old mother of three, Dorothy Onyekas, faked her pregnancy with 86 pellets of white powdery substance, which tested positive for cocaine. “The drug was intercepted during the inward screening of passengers on an Emirates flight from Dubai, United Arab Emirates. “The substance has a total weight of 1.720 kilogrammes with an estimated street value of N20.6 million,’’ the statement said. According to the statement, which quoted the NDLEA commander at the Lagos airport, Ahmadu Garba, the wraps of cocaine would have been easily mistaken for pregnancy. “It was discovered that the suspect kept 86 wraps of cocaine inside a waist bag which was tied to her stomach. `Unfortunately, the drug was detected by NDLEA officers on her arrival from Dubai. The drug was immediately packed and weighed in her presence. “It had a gross weight of 1.720 kilogrammes,’’ Ahmadu said. The statement also quoted the chairman of the agency, Mr Muhammad Abdallah, as describing the recent drug seizures at this airport a welcome development that was capable of forcing drug cartels to a retreat. “In the past few days, the NDLEA has recorded numerous arrests and drug seizures at the Lagos airport. “The drug cartels have also suffered huge losses from these operations. This particular suspect feigned pregnancy with wraps of cocaine but she was caught by vigilant narcotic agents. “Some of the suspects recently apprehended concealed drugs in their socks and luggage while others ingested wraps of cocaine in disregard of the danger to their health. “In spite of their craftiness, we are daily stopping them from perpetrating their criminal act and forcing them to a retreat. “She will be charged to court soon,’’ Abdallah said. 