• Says he wants to destabilise Nigerian football BY GEORGE ALUO SPORTS Minister, Solomon Dalung yesterday rued the crisis rocking Nigerian football, even as he berated factional leader, Chris Giwa over the decision of his group to make pronouncements that are capable of destabilizing Nigerian football.The minister in a release made available to Daily Sunsports stated that both parties in the crisis must respect the rule of law, while pursuing their cases in court. The release which was signed by Nneka Anibeze, Special Assistant (Media) to the minister stated in part:“The announcement of the dissolution of standing committees and appointments by the Giwa led executive, even when the Amajuled board has indicated their right of appeal, cannot promote stability in football…. the judicial process must be allowed to run its full course, unless and until any of the parties wishes the contrary.” Dalung stressed that the Ministry will not allow threats to the peace of the country. “As a supervising Ministry, we are committed to maintaining law and order and will not accommodate threats to the peace of sports and the country. The interest of the nation supersedes any other inter- est,” Dalung stated. Dalung’s statement came in the wake of a Federal High court ruling in Jos which last week nullified the election of the current executive of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The Amaju Pinnick led board has since disclosed that it will appeal the ruling. .. As FIFA fires warning signal BY JOE APU AS the crisis rocking the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation, NFF persists, the world soccer ruling body, FIFA has warned that Nigeria stands the risk of getting banned if the verdict of the Federal High Court in Jos is allowed to stand. In a letter signed by the Acting Secretary General of FIFA, Markus Kattner to the President of the NFF, Amaju Pinnick, the soccer ruling body stated that they had taken note of the happenings in Nigeria and the decision of 8 April 2016 with regards to the ruling of the Federal High Court in Jos, which nullified the elections of 30 September 2014 of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF). FIFA stated that, “In this respect, and first of all, we would like to remind you that according to articles 13 and 17 of the FIFA Statutes, all members associations have to manage their affairs independently and with no influence from third parties in addition and according to article 68 of the FIFA Statutes, recourse to ordinary courts of Iaw is prohibited unless specifically provided for in the FIFA regulations. “Furthermore, it is the duty of each member association to ensure that these provisions are implemented by its members and possibly take sanctions against those which fail to respect these obligations. “In view of the above, the decisionof the Federal High Court in Jos, if implemented, would likely be considered as interference in the internal affairs of the NFF and the case would be brought to the highest authorities of FIFA for consideration of sanctions, including the suspension of the NFF.” 