From Tony Osauzo, Benin THE construction of an­other cement plant with 4,500 direct and 45,000 indirect jobs capacity was yesterday flagged off by the Dangote Group at Ok­pella in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State. The Federal Govern­ment at the event an­nounced it has concluded plans to meet with the 36 state governors to simplify access to land by investors in the mining industry. The Minister of Solid Minerals, Dr. Kayode Fayemi disclosed this at the groundbreaking cer­emony of the over $1 bil­lion 2-line six million met­ric tonnes capacity cement plant. Commending the Dan­gote Group for champi­oning the Federal Gov­ernment industrialisation policy, Fayemi lamented that only 0.24 percent of the country’s GDP comes from the mining industry, but anticipated that with continuous investment in that sector, Nigeria is ex­pected to earn $25 billion per annum by the year 2025. In his speech, Minis­ter of Trade, Investment and Industry, Dr. Oke­chukwu Enelamah, who spoke through Hajiya Aisha Abubakar, said the groundbreaking ceremony marked another mile stone in the history of Dangote family. “What we are witness­ing today is a path to na­tional development and peace,” he said, urging the Dangote group to embark on constructive manufac­turing and mentorship of the young ones to grow. He also urged the Dan­gote Group and other in­vestors to always honour agreements reached with their host communities in other to ensure safety of their investments. Also speaking at the event, Governor Adams Oshiomhole noted that all the money invested by the state government on infra­structure in the past seven and half years, was a little less than what the Dangote Group is investing in the Okpella cement plant. “We recognise that the plant that is being set up, for which we are doing the groundbreaking today, is worth over $1 billion. It means that all the activi­ties of Edo State Govern­ment over the past seven and half years is just about the same value of what we are about to commence to­day,” he said. He commended Chief Dangote for choosing to be at work in a small vil­lage, on a Sunday and the very day of his 59th birth­day anniversary, rather than closing the streets of Lagos and Kano in cel­ebration of his birthday. Welcoming guests earli­er, the Chairman of Etsako East Local Government Area, Prince Suleman Af­egbua, who lauded Gov­ernor Oshiomhole for at­tracting the citing of the plant in Okpella, noted that the “establishment of a gargantuan cement plant in Okpella by Dangote, will not only make Nige­ria self-reliant but a strong exporter of the products to other countries.” 