From Judex Okoro, Calabar ELEVEN persons were re­ported dead, while several domestic animals and farm produce were destroyed following a land dispute in some communities in Cross River State. Of the number, four were reportedly killed in Onyadama and Inyima clash, while seven were killed in Ukpe, Okpagada and Mgbagede land tussle. Communities involved in serious communal wars over parcel of farmlands in the last couple of weeks in­clude Onyadama and Inyi­ma in Obubra and Yakurr local government areas as well as Ukpe, Okpagada and Mgbagede in Ogoja Local Government in the northern senatorial district. For 10 years running, the communities have en­gaged in a fratricidal war over a disputed land. Eders of the warring communi­ties had on different occa­sions signed a peace pact. However, trouble started again between the Onyad­ama and Inyima commu­nities penultimate week when Inyima people alleg­edly abducted an Onyad­ama man at his farm, in revenge for the lives they lost in 2014 within the dis­puted land axis. An eyewitness told Dai­ly Sun that shortly after the abduction, the Inyima peo­ple launched an attack on their Onyadam neighbours and allegedly killed three persons and wounded sev­eral others, including chil­dren. The eyewitness said the Inyima people aligned with Nko community and invaded Adun, a small vil­lage within Onyadama, and subsequently sacked the whole community, ren­dering hundreds of persons homeless. “I can tell you that the entire Ebo community, which is under Onyad­ama in Obubra, has been sacked as a result of the war,” the source said. The account said most of Ebo people were now refugees in the neighbour­ing communities of Ofud­ua, Ababent and Ofat. At Ogoja Local Govern­ment Area, Okpagada and Mbagede communities are currently in communal war with Ukpe commu­nity over the ownership of a parcel of land, leading to deaths of about seven persons. Investigation showed that the clash, which has been raging for about three days now, has led to inva­sion of both warring com­munities by the youths. Speaking, Chairman of Obubra council, Mr Ki­eran Mfam, said the con­flict started “five days ago when an Inyima young man shot his Onyadma counterpart in the bush over land dispute. Luck­ily the man did not die and what is going on now is re­venge action by the Onya­dama people.” Mfam said Inyima and Onyama people had a long history of boundary dis­pute, and that in 2014, the two communities fought over the same piece of land. Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO), Mr. John Eluu, however said the state Commissioner of Po­lice, Mr. Henry Fadairo, had visited the warring communities in Obubra and sued for peace. The PPRO did not confirm any death. He also said he had not been briefed on Ogoja feud. 