….As IGP tours North East, deploys 3,000 officers From Mollly Kilete. Maiduguri. The Nigerian Police, yesterday, said it has fully taken over four liberated towns and cities in Borno State from  Boko Haram. Similarly, the police said it has concluded plans to take over another 19 liberated towns in the state before the end of the month This was just as Inspector General of Police, Solomon Arase, assured the government and people of Borno of the determination of his men to restore civil authority in not just the liberated towns in Borno, but the entire North East. Police, however, refused to name the liberated towns and villages for security reasons. Arase, who is visiting Borno, Yobe and Adamawa to ascertain the level of deployment of personnel and equipment to liberated cities and towns, equally assured that the police would do everything in its power to restore civil authority in all  liberated towns in the North East in the shortest possible time. At a meeting he had with officers and men of the Borno State Police Command headed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Sotonye Wakama, the IGP said the welfare of personnel to be deployed to the liberated towns and cities was of top most priority to enable them perform optimally. He said of the 3,000, police personnel that would be deployed to the North East, about 1,700, will be in Borno to be assisted by men of the state command while others would be deployed to Yobe and Adamawa states. Arase said the deployment was in response to President Muhamadu Buhari’s directive to the police to move into liberated towns and cities to restore civil authority. The IGP, who also visited Governor Kashim Shettima  said police presence in the liberated towns would create a secure environment necessary for the return of IDPs to their respective communities. He appealed to the governor to make land available in the state for the police to built post service houses for its personnel to retire to after service. The governor, who was represented by his deputy, thanked the IGP, for visiting the state and said the presence of police personnel in liberated towns and villages, displaced persons would now have the confidence to return  to their respective towns and carry on with their legitimate businesses without fear of being killed. …Insurgents launch new uniform, ID •Soldiers kill kingpin, 6 others From Molly Kilete , Abuja The Nigerian Army disclosed  yesterday that Boko Haram members now have new uniforms and new means of identification. It also emerged that soldiers on counter-insurgency operation in the North East have killed a notorious kingpin and  Boko Haram leader alongside six others. The slain terrorist, also known as the Albani of Monguno, was killed at Gratte in Kukawa Local Government Area of Borno State, by soldier from 7 Brigade, 8 Task Force Division, while on clearance operations in the area. Director of Amy Public Relations, Col. Sani Usman said soldiers recovered two vehicles, seven motorcycles, one AK-47 rifle, two Boko Haram terrorists hoisted flags, among others. Meanwhile,  the Defence Headquarters said yesterday evening that the insurgents have now resorted to laying land mines in a desperate bid to unleash terror on the people. The land mines were planted on stretches of stretches of farmland, said Brigadier General Rabe Abubakr, director of Defence Information. Earlier, Usman disclosed in a statement how “troops of 22 Brigade Garrison and elements of 3 Battalion who went out on long range fighting patrol yesterday, to Gima village, in Ngala Local Government Area, made a startling discovery” of new uniforms and identity cards of the terrorists. He said “the patrol came in contact with some elements of Boko Haram who escaped on sighting the team. However, they were able to apprehend two terrorists in their new styled uniform of green colour and use of ropes on their legs and neck.” This, according to Sani, was “a new development in the ongoing clearance operations of the remnants of the Boko Haram in the North East.” The patrol team, he said, recovered one Isuzu Canter lorry concealed with grasses, five motorcycles and two bags of guinea corn. Other items recovered include three dane guns, a solar panel and three bows and arrows. The arrested terrorists are currently being interrogated to further assist in the clearance operations. 