The immediate past president of the Senate, Senator David Mark has debunked reports in the media linking him to Panama papers which alleged that he operated offshore companies, insisting that he has no connection, whatsoever, to any of the companies registered, operated or managed by the Mossack Fonseca Law Firm.
In a statement issued on Thursday by his Media team and signed by Paul Mumeh, the lawmaker representing Benue South maintained that his name is not listed anywhere in the database of Mossack Fonseca Law Firm in the released materials of the Panama Leaks. The statement reads, “We challenge all those behind this propaganda and Media outburst to prove or show that Senator Mark’s name was mentioned in the leaks. He is prepared to stand and defend himself against any accusation in relation to this matter. “Senator Mark’s Media team has carried out its own search of the Mossack Fonseca database and found no statement, item or any connection to Senator David Mark or his family. It follows that there is no record, whatsoever, of any impropriety or wrongdoing. “We recall that in his quest for Senate Presidency in 2007, there was an attempt to bring a similar issue to the fore in order to stop him. So what are their fears now in 2016 for regurgitating the same issue? “Once more, Senator Mark has distanced himself and any member of his family from the said Mossack Fonseca Firm and has no affiliation, whatsoever, with any company operated, registered or managed by Mossack Fonseca. “Senator Mark has not contravened any laws of the land and he is treating this for what it is, an attempt to blackmail and tarnish his hard earned image by some political elements. “As a public officer, Senator Mark has maintained a high level of decorum, respects and observes the laws of the land and believes in the sanctity of the rule of law. He will not be distracted by what is clearly a deliberate mischief and propaganda. “Records of all his assets are available with the relevant government agencies and can be verified. “He has consulted his legal team and will take this up accordingly.” (Source: DAILY POST) 