The Department of State Security Services (DSS), Kwara State Command
on Friday paraded five suspects who specialize in forging certificates of educational institutions, examination bodies and government agencies. The State Director, Alhaji Abdullahi Skinkafi paraded the suspects at
the Command Headquarters in Ilorin. He also displayed forged certificates of higher institutions spread across the countries, Kwara local governments’ indigene certificates, Senior Secondary Certificates (SSCE) of NECO, WASC and NABTEB. Others on display were those of Kwara first School leaving Certificates, NYSC certificate s of exemption and discharge, statements of result for a number of secondary schools and WAEC result notifications. Also on display were stamps of various institutions, establishments, High Court of Kwara, court of Affidavits, laptop, type writer and office equipments. The suspects were Adebimpe Ayodeji, Moshood Abdulhafiz, Sikiru Rafiu, Aliyu Abdulfatai and a woman Musilimat Majeed. The Security operatives also recovered hundreds of copies of Kwara State Polytechnics certificates, that of University of Calabar, Lagos State University, College of Education of Ilorin and Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta. Others were forged certificates of Federal Polytechnic, Oko in Anambra, Offa, Kwara, Kaduna, Calabar, Osun, Baptist Model High School, Ilorin as well as NABTEB objective sheets and answer booklets. Speaking to the newsmen, Shinkafi said officers of the Command swooped
on the syndicate following a tip off. He said that the suspects were operating from their various homes where they were apprehended. “The Service’s findings are not unconnected with the discovery of some employees being in possession of fake academic documents during the ongoing screening of workers in Kwara. “The stamp pads and the fake certificates/documents look very genuine that unsuspecting persons will find it difficult to substantiate. “Further investigation revealed that many unscrupulous persons particularly in Kwara have partronised the fraudsters to get unmerited certificates to gain employment in into government agencies/institutions,” Shinkafi added. The Director called on members of the public to be vigilant and report to security agencies any suspected certificates, documents and cyber crimes’ syndicates. Shinkafi appealed to members of the public to avail the Service with any useful information that may lead to the arrest of AbdulMajeed Olaide, leader of the syndicate still at large.