FORMER Governor of Delta State, Chief James Onanefe Ibori, joined Nigerians, es­pecially the Ijaw nation, in mourning Chief D.S.P Alamieyeseigha, whose remains were buried yesterday, describing the for­mer Bayelsa State governor as a “Martyr of the cause of the Niger Delta.” Chief Ibori, in a farewell tribute he wrote from London where he is serving term for money laundering, lauded Alamieyeseigha for his astute and visionary leadership, sacri­fice and commitment to the growth and wel­fare of the Niger Delta region and its people, regretting that he would be missed. The ex Delta helmsman and political as­sociate of the late Alamieyeseigha lamented that his former counterpart was a victim of an orchestrated political witch-hunt due to the crucial role he played in championing the cause of his people. Going down memory lane, he recalled how the late Alamieyeseigha transformed backward Bayelsa through massive social, infrastructural and human capital develop­ment, especially by sponsoring indigenes abroad on educational scholarships, while also addressing unemployment, poverty, neglect and degradation of the region’s eco­system through oil pollution. Unforgettable, he said, was also the Ijaw leader’s role in fostering peace and unity among the disparate ethnic groups in the region, especially between the Ijaw and It­sekiri in Delta.. Chief Ibori noted that Alamieyeseigha’s unwavering love and the charismatic lead­ership he gave Niger Delta endeared him to the people, who demonstrated their loyalty and solidarity to stand by him during his alleged persecution and trial on corruption charges. He alleged that the man fondly called “Governor General was persecuted and “murdered’ due to his stout and principled opposition and challenge of a burgeoning dictatorship, single tenure agenda, imposi­tion of emergency rule in Plateau State and Federal Government’s political manipula­tion and interference in the troubled Niger Delta. Ibori regretted, however, that the former governor, with whom, he suffered similar ordeal, experienced double jeopardy and loss by submitting to blackmail to plead guilty that led to his being jailed and also dying from the ignominy of not being able to prove his innocence. “Even as I mourn, I find comfort in the love, admiration, rever­ence and even veneration that have gushed out for you from all parts of Bayelsa, the entire Ijaw nation, and beyond, despite the political persecution and orchestrated dis­information that culminated in the public hysteria against you, ‘ Ibori wrote. He added: “You rose like a phoenix from the ashes of political discontent and discord to bestride Bayelsa’s politics like a colossus. Your people’s love for you was displayed on your return from London in November 2005. The entire state was agog with joy, not because every Bayelsan agreed with your politics, but because most Bayelsans believed your travails were triggered by your commitment to their cause. Naturally, you had your ardent supporters as well as adversaries; yet, you rode into Yenegoa tri­umphantly like the biblical Jesus entering Jerusalem. That was a memorable day in Bayelsa’s history. Your enraged traducers sent a heavy deployment of troops to Gov­ernment House, Yenegoa on a “kidnap or kill mission”. The rest is now history. How can we ever forget that part of our national history?… DSP, the Ijaws and Niger Delt­ans salute you. We will honour you forever because we affirm you as our true leader who became a victim of political “witch-hunt”.