From EMMANUEL UZOR, Abakaliki AS reactions continue to trail the recent killing of Nimbo people in Uzo-Uwani local government area of Enugu State, the Movement for the Actualization of the Sover­eign State of Biafra, MAS­SOB has warned the Igbo that the recent attack was a mani­festation of another impend­ing pogrom against Ndigbo. They also alleged that the attackers of Nimbo commu­nity were not Fulani herds­men but a group of soldiers fighting as a militia group under the aegis of Islamic Arewa Army (ISAA) to con­quer the entire South East and South-South for Islam. MASSOB leadership through Uchenna Madu dis­closed this shortly after an emergency meeting of prin­cipal officials of MASSOB Executives in Okwe, Imo state where they flayed the at­tack on the innocent residents of Enugu community by the Fulani herdsmen. Part of their resolutions reads “Buhari’s sudden and pressurized U-turn and presi­dential order against Fulani’s herdsmen is a complete po­litical jamboree which can never hold any water. It is a move meant to deceive the Igbo Biafrans and Christians in general. Buhari’s shock­ing statement was born out of fear and jittery because it has affected Ndigbo whom he knew may not easily tolerate this provocation. “As a Nigerian soldier, Buhari fought against Biafra during the Nigeria – civil war. MASSOB see more coordi­nated military camouflaged pogroms coming, it shall continue to be disguised as Fulani’s herdsmen but the real men behind these po­groms are Islamic Arewa Army (ISAA) established to conquer and actualize the Islamic, political, economic and social command of Oth­man Dan Fodio and Ahmadu Bello (Sarduana of Sokoto) of dipping their Koran deep in the sea and conquering, us­ing the minority North (Mid­dle Beltans) to fight against the Christian South”. The group charged Ndigbo to stop too much talking on sensitive issues concerning the lives and future of their people but concentrate more on building synergies, strate­gies and community based watchdog for native security of their people. “Even some Igbo groups are busy counting numbers of casualties and how the Federal government secu­rity agents abandoned our people, these era have gone, until Ndigbo understand the potency, efficiency, efficacy, ability, capabilities, consis­tency and undying spirit of Igbo oriented based self determination groups in na­tively protecting and defend­ing Igbo people interest and future, Hausa Fulani herds­men will continue to harass, intimidate, invade and cause more pogroms against Biaf­rans”. Madu further disclosed that Ndigbo should hold their governors responsible for any invasion of their land by for­eigners. 