Photo: Premium Time-NAN The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) on Friday solicited the support of the public in curtailing sharp practices by dealers of petroleum products who received products from official channels at regulated prices.. Mr Asuquo Antai, the Operations Controller of DPR in Bayelsa, told  journalists  on Saturday in Yenagoa that public support would
complement the efforts of DPR staff. He said “we have increased field surveillance activities and have two teams in the field, but our staff cannot be permanently stationed at the stations on a 24 hour basis but the public can reach us and report on our complaints line. “Members of the public are always at the stations and they should feel free to make reports on the following telephone lines and we pledge to respond promptly, 08020816961, 0811395 2167 and 08070690617.” Meanwhile, petroleum product marketers in Bayelsa received a total of 962,950 litres of petrol on Wednesday and Thursday in 15 trucks says, the
Department said. Antai said that the products were to be dispensed to the public at approved pump price of N86.50. He explained that the DPR had intensified surveillance on marketers to ensure that products were not diverted or sold above approved prices. According to him, the products are distributed to marketers located at strategic locations in the state to cushion the effects of the scarcity currently being experienced in the state. He said efforts had also been intensified to get more products from the Pipeline and Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) in Port Harcourt, noting that “between Wednesday and Thursday, products supply to Bayelsa increased significantly, even though we are yet to meet the demands of the public but there is an improvement. “We got 15 trucks so far and the state received some 962,950 litres of PMS in two days allocated across the state and we want to emphasise that these products sourced from PPMC should not be sold above approved pump price. “On Wednesday, we got 10 trucks allocated to Bayelsa, five trucks went to NNPC Mega Station along Sani Abacha Expressway, Kenia and OGOFA, NNPC franchise stations located in Yenagoa one truck each. “For the outskirts, Kimiwei located at Kaima got one truck while NNPC floating stations in Nembe and Oporoma each got one truck to take care of coastal communities in the state.” He explained that five trucks were also allocated to Bayelsa on Thursday with three trucks going to NNPC Mega Station at Sani Abacha Expressway, while A. Anco, an NNPC franchise station in Yenagoa got one truck, while Kimiowe got one. (NAN) 