SHE is calm and simple. As the woman in the helm of affairs in her office, she appears unassuming yet exudes confidence when necessary. Nkiruka is dedicated to helping people (women in particular) to refocus and move from their current to their desired re­ality. She is the founder of the Made Forum, a life coaching platform that helps individu­als to live a life of purpose. Recently, Effect engaged this amazon in a chat and Nkiru who is working towards hosting the maiden Runway Jazz this month, also spoke about her style. Excerpts. Who is Nkiruka Oguadinma? I’m the Managing Director of Neo Man­tra Limited. Neo Mantra is a subsidiary of the Verdant Zeal Group. In Neo-Mantra, we deal with intellectual property, content development, and branded entertainment. I studied Marketing while in school. My first degree is marketing and MBA which I bagged from Metropolitan University, London is also in marketing. Like I said, ideas, strategies will always rule the world. You can get a little bit of idea and turn it into something amazing. I’m a mother of three and I love my job so much and the fun that comes with it. I’m not happy when things are not moving well. I love making impact, that’s the most important thing for me. I feel that wherev­er you are. if you’re not contributing, fulfilling a purpose, or if people are not excited by your presence, blessed by your presence, then you’re not playing your part well. We are created to impact lives. That is what we should aim at, at all times. Your skin magic? It’s natural. You only need to eat good diet, sleep at the right time, have fun, and be happy. I’m a very natural person. One of those natural things that can make you look good is coconut oil, ori to some extent. I just love nature. My mum has a good skin and people often tell me they like my skin and I keep telling them to remain natural. I don’t use makeup. If you see me on makeup, then there is something really big happening. Oftentimes, when I use make­up, people tell me, that is not for you. I’m very natural. People should eat good food and be on vitamins. They should also drink so much water, this also keeps me going. When you take tea, honey, fruits, and vegetables, you are good. Green will always do good to your skin. It makes your skin glow and natural. How do you relax? I relax with my kids. I relax in my room. My books are there, I read a lot. To be very honest, I relax in my room. A lot of people find such a life boring. I watch movies in my room, not in the theatre. That is my formula. My room is like my haven. My room is my favourite spot. How do you juggle being an executive, wife and a mother?
Whenever I hear people say they don’t have time, I make them to realize that it all depends on how well they plan and manage their time. I tell people that your life belongs to you and it all depends on how well you structure it. If there are things not working for you, just cut it off. You are the one who make decisions; lead your life. Life affects everyone and we also have to affect life. That is what I tell people. We are created with so many gifts by God but I urge people to tap into the gifts and remain happy. What is your sense of style? I do a lot of corporate works, so I love corporate wears. I also love traditional attires and trousers, How was life, grow­ing up? I was born in Aba. People hardly believe that. I moved around a lot. My secondary school was in Umuahia. After that, I moved to Calabar for my university education. I have been in Lagos for a while, working. I traveled out of the country but I still returned to Lagos. Can you recall memories of your years of childhood? One thing that will nev­er leave me is the secondary school I attended. It was a seminary school in Umuahia. The school is called SMAGS, St Mary Magdalene Anglican Girls Seminary. We had this woman as principlal, God bless her soul, Mrs NK Asinobi. If you meet anyone who attended that school while she was the principal, you would not see anything different between her and myself because we were all modeled. Mrs Asinobi schooled in the UK and everybody were straight. The memory of the discipline; the respect, the value to life and hard work never left me. Moreover, my parents were disciplinarians also. That woman is one of the reasons I am what I am today to be very honest. Then, you would think that she was punishing you, but to be honest, most of us who attend­ed that school are prvoducts of excellence. I’m not blowing my trumpet but that was exactly what it was. Tell us about the forthcoming event? Runway Jazz is a night of fashion and jazz music. It is a master art training for people who are interested in jazz instruments and a bit of fine dinning. It’s holding at Eko Ho­tel, starting from April 29th through May 1. You would be meeting people as jazz music is being played or while they are entertaining us, you would see people on the runway. Master class and fine dinning will hold on the April 30. Its going to be absolutely amazing. There will be a snazzy, edgy runway show featuring top models and designers with avant-garde and a glamorous collection of clothes and fash­ion accessories led by Frank Osodi of Bunor Creazioni. There’s also going to be a special masterclass and mentoring session with Kirk Whalum for music enthusiasts and students, and an exclusive fine dining experience with Kirk Whalum, to round off the event. How did this project come about? We entered into partnership with Sweet Sound African Promotions by Afolabi Oke and his team. We met while they are thinking about UNESCO and having jazz performance with the highly rated international jazz artiste … We think that may just be jazz why not infuse something that is absolutely very differ­ent that has not happened in Nigeria before. We usually hear music on runway but jazz is unique. It’s for the matured mind and ialso premium. We want people to come and enjoy good music and watch glamorous designs on the runway. It’s a high class event. Favourite weather I love Harmattan. Unfortunately, people would not believe this because it dries the skin and all that. But for me, my best weather is harmattan because I hate it when it’s very hot. You will never see me travel during summer. I travel when it’s cold. I keep telling people, it’s hot in Nigeria, and when you travel when it’s sunny over there, then what is the difference? I travel when it’s cold, that is the only time I feel being outside Nigeria. You launched a book last year, tell us a bit about it? The book entitled “Made In Heaven”, is a survivors’ testament, the rise of women from a place of oppression and abuse, to a place of purpose and power. It is also a compendi­um of messages of breakthrough and hope. It contains inspiring tales and experiences of various cadres of people who have turned their adversities into weapons of self-discovery and self-recovery. It calls for readers to conquer their struggles with identity crisis, shame, despondency, low self-esteem, depression and every negative stronghold, and live a life filled with new possibilities. 