AS its shareholders applauded its 2015 fiscal performance, the management of United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has expressed optimism that the bank would sustain the significant improvement this year despite the harsh operat­ing environment. According to its Group Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Phillips Oduoza, the bank would form synergies across its operations to grow its mar­ket share and create new op­portunities. His words: “We duly note the challenging operating en­vironment and intensifying competition. However, we see opportunities amid these chal­lenges and we will leverage our unique platform in build­ing ‘economic moat’ for UBA in the African banking indus­try. We will further extract synergies across our operations to grow our share of existing market and create new oppor­tunities” Oduoza, who stated this at the bank’s Annual Gen­eral Meeting (AGM) Friday in Lagos, explained that the management rigorously identi­fied and eliminated fats in the system, improved on contract negotiations, eliminated over­lapping functions and struc­tures and continued to leverage technology in its operations, particularly in servicing its over eight million customers through low cost service chan­nels, which ensured that it de­livered improved performance to shareholders in 2015. Earlier, Tony Elumelu, its Chairman, told the sharehold­ers that the bank’s strong per­formance in 2015 reflects ef­ficiency gains, prudence and best practice in risk manage­ment. He stated: “We recorded N315 billion in gross earnings, a 10 per cent growth when compared to 2014 perfor­mance. This was achieved in spite of relatively weak liquid­ity in the Nigerian foreign ex­change market, which reduced foreign currency related busi­ness and income lines. Our bank offset the macroeconom­ic challenges with improved customer service and balance sheet efficiency”. Elumelu further told share­holders that the bank success­fully managed its cost through the year, “thus preserving earn­ings to deliver a profit before tax of N69 billion, which trans­lates to 22 per cent growth over our performance in 2014.”