From Tony John, Port Harcourt THERE was heavy exchange of gunfire between the military and some youths in Rivers State yesterday. There was no casualty figure as at the time of filing the report, but a source said some lives were lost in the shootout. The shooting, regarded as a military operation, took place in four local government areas of Ahoada East, Ahoada West, Abua/Odual and Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni (ONELGA). When Daily Sun contacted the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ahmad Muhammad, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), he said it was a military operation and referred the reporter to the army PRO. But, when contacted, the Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, 2 Brigade, Nigerian Army, in Port Harcourt, Captain Eli Lazarus, confirmed only one LGA was affected. He said it was a continuous military operation to rid the areas of crime and criminal elements. The military had been carrying out operations in some LGAs to mop up arms and rid the state of criminal elements, particularly cultists, who had been involved in several killings. In related development, police confirmed the killing of a cleric, Pastor Geoffrey Ogagaghene, in Ohali-Elu, Egi community in ONELGA. The police, in a statement issued yesterday by the command’s spokesperson, Muhammad, said the confirmation was sequel to conflicting death toll figures reported in the media. He said: “Unconfirmed sources indicated six other persons lost their lives after the attack. The death of these six persons still remains unconfirmed for the simple reason that the police neither recovered nor visibly saw the corpses at the time of responding to the incident. “Consequently, the command can only confirm the death of Pastor Geoffrey Ogagaghene whose corpse was seen and identified. “The situation now in Ohali-Elu town is calm as the command has taken full control with the deployment of adequate armed mobile policemen to forestall further breakdown of law and order.”  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 