•I don’t want to engage in media bantering again –Ikedife From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha and David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) led by Mr. Nnamdi Kanu has expressed happiness over the remoured case filed against it and its leadership at International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, Netherlands on alleged killing of over 50 Hausa/Fulani herdsmen in Abia State. The group said although it had not received any suit from ICC or has Nnamdi Kanu’s lawyer, Mr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor received any notification of ICC suit against Kanu, it noted it was a good omen if the rumour becomes a reality. A  civil rights activist, Mr Albert Ella, through his lawyer, Edward Omaga of Graylaw Solicitors had reportedly filed a complaint at ICC against IPOB, accusing members and the leader of committing grave crimes against humanity. He also alleged that 55 persons whose bodies were reportedly exhumed by Department of State Security (DSS) were murdered by IPOB with the use of chemicals and other dangerous instruments against the Rome Statute. In a statement by the spokespersons of IPOB, Dr. Clifford Iroanya and Mr. Emma Mmezu said: “We are praying fervently that this news is actually true and not just a fiction. We, IPOB, wholeheartedly welcome this attempt to justify the continued illegal detention of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu by purportedly charging him to ICC. “We have instructed our lawyers in Amsterdam to convey our willingness to stand trial as well as seek the ICC to prioritise the allegation.” Meanwhile, former president general of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Dr. Dozie Ikedife, yesterday in Nnewi, Anambra State said he would not like to engage anyone further in newspaper bantering. The activist had in recent time been involved in media war with some people and groups in his attempts at putting the records straight about him. Dr. Ikedife said he deduced that his attackers might have been misinformed, misguided and frustrated as most of the things they said in the publications were based on imagery “and I have sympathy for them. But I advise them to go and look for their age mates.” However, a source, an elderly man in the industrial community, who would not like to be mentioned for fear of being attacked said those who were attacking Ikedife in the media did not know the personality involved. The source acknowledged Ikedife as one of the long standing patriots for self determination, a Nigerian and African patriot who has been fighting for the well-being of the population for well over 50 years long before most of those people were born. “They don’t know that. I think those people who are attacking him are acting a script written by agents of confusion. It is not fair to Dr Ikedife I know. He is as clean as whistle, a man who does not believe in irregularities and he is very much against bastardisation of customs and tradition. He added: “He is very much upset when the truth is being turned upside down. It is my candid advise that the people should tender public apology to him to show that they were misinformed and misguided. They are turning their anger to the wrong direction,” the source concluded.    