By Emma Njoku Youths from the North-Eastern part of the country , under the aegis of, North-East Youth Peace Development and Empowerment Initiative (NEYPDI) have criticised Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State over his recent comment that no schoolgirl was abducted in Chibok, Borno State.
President of NEYPDI, Alhaji Kyari Abubakar, who spoke on behalf of the organisation, expressed surprise that Governor Fayose, who prides himself as a democrat, could make such statement to score a cheap political point.
He said: “We are surprised that such statement is coming from someone who claims to be a democrat. Such a statement suggests that he has no sympathy for the parents of the abducted girls and the pains they are currently passing through.”
Abubakar urged Fayose to take a trip to states like Borno, Adamawa, Yobe and see the extent of damage done by Boko Haram insurgents.
“He (Fayose) should not mislead Nigerians that North-East people are telling lies on the abduction of their daughters. That incident is always fresh in our memory.
“His utterance is short of what we expect from an elder statesman like him. We, therefore, advise him to concentrate on his governance of Ekiti State,” Abubakar said.
The youth leader urged civil society organisations campaigning for the release of Chibok girls to disregard Fayose’s statement and continue with their good work.
“The North-East youths thank civil society groups and socio-cultural organisations as well as international bodies campaigning for the release of the Chibok girls.”
Governor Fayose described civil society organisations campaigning for the release of the abducted Chibok girls as mere opportunists and job seekers.
Abubakar urged Inspector General of Police IGP and other relevant authorities to call Fayose to order.
“We wish to call on our highly respected Inspector-General of Police and other relevant authorities to caution the governor and stop him from making incisive statements capable of creating public disaffection and hatred among the citizens of this country.” 