EBERE WABARA ewabara@yahoo.com 08055001948 EVERY March 28 marks the anniver­sary of my gestapo-like abduction initi­ated, coordinated and executed by one Barrister James Opara at the blood-cur­dling instance of the former governor of Abia State, Mr. Theodore Ahamefule Orji (Ochendo). This reaffirmation (I knew this fact from that day of lawless­ness, ghastliness and beastliness) was made by the state’s erstwhile Informa­tion and Strategy (what propagandistic strategy?) Commissioner, Don Ubani, in a recent telephony. Ubani also viru­lently spun some belated yarns about Ochendo, which are off record! (By the way, when a father curses his son over parental marital tiffs, the son flippantly reveals secrets without solicitation!) That I survived to commemorate the ugly incident is God’s grace. I give Him thanks and adoration, endlessly. This is the first time I will publicly commemo­rate the barbarism shrouded in blood­thirstiness. The trauma engendered by this despotic and horrific manifestation of T. A.-sponsored invasion in the em­barrassing presence of some members of my immediate family is unprece­dented in recent human history. If I had died, my innocent blood would have been on the head of Opara. It would not have been my battle but the Lord’s. Even now, the seed that Opara sowed is flourishing and he would soon start harvesting its fruits. All my life, I have never seen that kind of atrocious wicked­ness. (I will expatiate on his callousness presently). The God that I worship is a God of vengeance and having done noth­ing to Opara, karmic nemesis will soon catch up with him, if it has not already. He cannot escape earthly and heavenly damnation for his unwarranted cruelty to me. Opara mechanistically directed the abduction with his police accomplices, who were at his service, using his rick­ety SUV (a brown Nissan Pathfinder) number-plated LSD 205 BL) to move me handcuffed from one police station in Lagos to another before finally bun­dling me into a waiting Abia Line com­mercial bus in Jibowu, Yaba, Lagos, en route Umuahia at 2.30 p.m. Please note that the abduction started from my home at 6.05 a.m. Having discharged his prey, after riding in a cab as an outrider-cum-escort, Opara jubilantly entered his di­lapidated SUV driven by another dishev­elled bunkum like his master back home to savour his dollarized payment for suc­cessfully, but fleetingly, kidnapping the Lord’s annointed. The dastardly plot was for me to spend the weekend in various cells in Umuahia before any reprieve could come my way possibly on Monday or thereabouts. Un­fortunately, for them, a call to the former IGP, Mohammed Dikko Abubakar, by Dr. Kalu, who was abroad, made all the difference. Once more, it will continue to be well for M.D. Abubakar. He reminds me of a friend of mine and one of his predecessors, egbon Tafa Balogun, How I wish this gory incident occurred during egbon’s time! In my entire existential trajectory, I have never been so assailed, assaulted, battered, brutalized and manacled for 24 hours amid excruciating pains, es­pecially for a man used to comfortable life right from aristocratic birth to zest­ful adulthood. That was the first time I ever entered police torture chambers called cells. In the ensuing suit, U/11/C/2014, between the Commissioner of Police and this writer, the police declared stupefactiously that one of my articles entitled “Buffoonery by Mezie Abia Organisation” was seditious…bla, bla, bla. It never occurred to the CP to ask his benefactor what gave rise to that article, which was a lucid and combus­tible response to the scurrilous adver­torial by the ad hoc state creation that bordered on idiocy! Anyone interested in these inflammatory matters should get copies of The Sun between January and March 2014 and read other equal­ly “seditious publications” by me like “Kalu: T. A. Orji’s self-delusion”; “Go to Akwa Ibom, weep for Abia State”; “T. A. Orji’s 7-year demystification of Kalu”; “Demystifying a master strate­gist”; among other damning essays, most of which ludicrously constituted separate charges according to the mis­guided CP. Even before the Federal High Court sitting in Lagos gave its damnable judg­ment on the suit, eminent lawyers, Itse Sagay (SAN), Fred Agbaje and Festus Keyamo, among others, had dismissed the case as lacking in merit having died with colonialism. Is it to be assumed that the Abia State high-powered legal team in this matter did not know that sedition was extinct in the country with the end of colonialism! Ignorance is bliss indeed. . Why is it that lawyers are mostly used for such murderous and other dirty jobs? Does it have to do with their profession­al joblessness or unemployability of a majority of them? Why would a lawyer, so called, be championing criminality just because of the peanuts he expects when he knows that his mission is bar­baric, patently illegal, unconstitutional, uncivilized, ungodly, lethal, unjustifi­able, irrational, irresponsible and inde­fensible? Do these lawyers and agents of malicious wickedness not realise that they have immediate and extended fam­ilies? In the case of Opara, his younger brother, Christian Opara, is a sports edi­tor in The Guardian. How would he feel if someone arranges for Christian’s ab­duction the way he did for me? If James Opara has a family, how would he feel if one of them is abducted the way he engineered mine? The Opa­ras will definitely have a taste of James’s inhumanity to me either soonest or in the future. I may have forgiven his prin­cipal, Theodore Orji, but Opara’s case is beyond forgiveness/forgetfulness and I will continue to pray fervently that he and his generation reap the whirl­wind of this his atrocity shortly. Nobody should sermonize to me on the need for forgiveness! If his uncanny behaviour had resulted in my extinction, there would have been no forgiveness in death. How Opara and his co-conspirators criminally got my Aguda residential ad­dress remains a puzzle to me! The re­flections continue next week.  