…Blames corruption, policy somersault By Uche Usim AS substandard goods continue to flood Nigeria’s markets, the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to address the problem in the interest of the nation’s economy. In a petition to the President, NAGAFF attributed the influx of fake goods/substandard products to inconsistent government policies and compromise on the part of some officials of government’s agencies stationed at the ports. Secretary General of NAGAFF, Mr. Arthur Igwillo, in the petition said it was disheartening to observe that despite the existence of regulatory agencies like Customs, Port Health, Standards Organisation of Nigeria  (SON), National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), among others, fake and adulterated products still flood the markets. According to him, NAGAFF has observed that some officials who are engaged to do the job are “round pegs in square holes”, urging the President to appoint technocrats to man some of the agencies currently without Chief Executives. The association insisted that starving various agencies of experienced experts will further worsen the problem of substandard goods coming into the country. “Another reason for the flooding of our markets with such goods is the unstable policies of government, which leave the officials of the agencies and trading public confused. It is on record that about two years ago, most of the regulatory agencies of government were asked to vacate the ports and operate from outside. “We regret to inform you that some of them were returned to the ports unjustifiably. Mr. President, it is disheartening to hear reports of avoidable catastrophes befalling our people as a result of fake, adulterated, or substandard products, either in terms of consumables or material and or structures. “We, however, wish to acknowledge the efforts of government in checking this trend through the setting up of regulatory agencies like NCS, NSC, CRC, NAFDAC, SON, Nigeria Quarantine Service, among others, to safeguard the health and well-being of the people,” Igwilo stated.  