Fined N6.75m BY GEORGE ALUO THE hammer of the League Management Company (LMC) yesterday fell on Giwa FC, as the club was banished to Ilorin from her Jos home and also fined a whooping N6.75m, no thanks to the unruly behaviour of her fans in the match day 11 game against Rangers. The LMC in a release made available to Daily Sunsports also ordered the club owned by Chris Giwa who is having a running battle with the nation’s soccer governing body, NFF to play the last 16 minutes of the game against Rangers at the Abuja National Stadium. Rangers was leading her host by a lone goal at the Jos Township Stadium before the game was disrupted. The LMC release stated in part: “For the discontinuation of the match due to the unruly conduct of the supporters, Giwa FC was fined N5, 000, 000 in line with B13.18, while the match will be concluded behind closed doors from the 74th minute on Wednesday, April 27 at the Abuja National Stadium with scores at 1-0 in favour of Rangers. Giwa FC was ordered to play their next three home games at the Ilorin Township Stadium for the unruly conduct of her supporters which included throwing of objects towards the field of play and to the Second Assistant Referee and causing disturbances in the course of the match which was in breach of Rules B13.21.” The LMC stressed that the team would on her return home play the rest of her home games behind closed doors. “Due to the persistent nature of such disturbances by supporters of Giwa FC, the club shall play its remaining home matches behind closed doors and supporters of the Club are banned from all League match venues for the remainder of the season,” the LMC release further stated A breakdown of the fines showed that the club would cough out N500,000 for the unruly behavior of the fans, N500,000 for failure to provide adequate security, N750,000 for the unruly behavior of players and officials of the club and another N500,000 for the assault on referees and match commissioner. The club had also been ordered to fish out for prosecution within seven days, two supporters of the club (names withheld by us ) who were at large. The club would be fined N25,000 per day until the unruly fans are handed over to security agencies for prosecution. Giwa FC has 48 hours within which to either accept the LMC rulings in writing or file an appeal before a commission.