By Olakunle Olafioye THREE candidates of Labour Party in the last Federal and State Assemblies polls in Rivers State have threatened to withdraw from contesting further re-run elections in the state except the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC wields the big stick against the perpetrators of the violence that marred the exercise. The candidates are Douglas Dodiyi-Manuel (Akulga/ Asalga Federal Constituency); Ted Dagogo Princewill (State House of Assembly Asalga Constituency 1) and Saturday Dabotubo Ngoji (State House of Assembly Asalga Constituency 2). The aggrieved candidates made their intention known in a letter to INEC Chairman. The letter dated March 29, 2016 accused INEC of shirking from its responsibility of initiating proceedings to disqualify candidates of political parties responsible for the violence that greeted the March rerun election in the state. “INEC appeared to have deliberately covered its head in the dirty political sand and consequently neglected or refused to perform its duties without fear or favour. Rather, INEC finds it convenient to call for fresh rerun each time the elections are marred by violence and killing instead of wielding the big stick against the known perpetrator of violence and anarchy so as to move the state forward. “It is disheartening that INEC has failed to initiate a proceeding to disqualify the candidates of the political parties that have held the state to ransom, shedding innocent blood in the process. The electoral umpire has chosen to treat the gladiators and perpetrators of the mayhem with kid glove and conveniently calls for re-run which is bound to produce the very same scenario and result,” they stated. The aggrieved candidates therefore restated their threat to withdraw from further participation in rescheduled election except INEC initiates a proceeding to disqualify or punish candidates of the political parties who perpetrate and sponsored violence against the people of the state. They also demand that INEC refund their expenses with regard to the last two botched polls and compensate them for resources and time wasted in the botched polls. 