The Minister for Youth and Sports Barrister Solomon Dalung has said that the Ministry will not accept any action that will threaten the peace of the country. Barrister Dalung made the statement in the wake of a Federal High court ruling in Jos which nullified the election of the current executive of the Nigeria Football Federation. He said sports loving Nigerians and the football family were thrown into a state of confusion following the ruling which sparked off the current leadership crisis in the NFF that also led to different press statements from both camps laying claim to the leadership of the federation.
The Minister warned that both parties must be guided by the rule of law. “This current administration believes in the rule of law and all of our actions must be guided by the provisions of the law. Therefore, anything that suggests the contrary will not be in the interest of the nation”. Barrister Dalung however stated that the Amaju -led board had a thirty-day right of appeal. “The decision of the court will only take effect if the right to appeal expires and the Amaju-led board fails to exercise its right . It will be out of place for any group of persons who have enjoyed the protection of the law by going to court to exercise their rights to now turn round and want to deny the other party of their own right”. This development, Barrister Dalung said, has been a source of great concern to sports loving Nigerians. “The announcement of the dissolution of standing committees and appointments by the Giwa led executive, even when the Amaju -led board has indicated their right of appeal, cannot promote stability in football. I am therefore calling on all parties to the dispute to maintain peace and respect the rule of law. By this token, the judicial process must be allowed to run its full course, unless and until any of the parties wishes the contrary”. Barrister Dalung warned that the Ministry will not allow threats to the peace of the country. As a supervising Ministry, we are committed to maintaining law and order and will not accommodate threats to the peace of sports and the country. The interest of the nation supersedes any other interest” the Minister said.