Pentecostal Ministers Forum (PMF) recently held their meetings at their headquarters office, ijegun ikotun Lagos where issues were deliberated and inaugurated on the way forward to the forum, Christian bodies, and the nation at large. Bishop Chidi Anthony, the President of the Forum (PMF) enlightened the members during their monthly meeting that the forum is a group of ministers of the gospel that decided to come together for the enhancement and effectiveness of their calling to the body of Christ to manifest and showcase the true character of a minister, he said. Anthony further disclosed by saying’ We have spread out our net within the two years of existence , we are now in 15 states of Nigeria and the essence of the meeting is to introduce and announce coordinators of each state, give them authority to go to their state to function properly in order to put things right. And how to set a day aside to pray for the nation because the intervention of God is needed in Nigeria. Dr. Chris Ekeh, the speaker of the day at the forum (PMF) spoke on Church Administration and Management that the causes of decay that is fast consuming the foundation of so many churches today Is lack of understanding and however added some useful points like Vision, Structure, Projects, Leadership, Finance, People. Chris continues that the First assignment God gave man was the management of resources for the fulfillment of God’s vision on earth. He also advices members to note that ‘Dreams determines your goals, Your goals map out your actions, Your action create results, and the results brings your success. Dr. Chukwuemeka Odigbo, the vice president to the forum discloses that PMF is a place where you meet people, people who are matters and represented. Talks about how the Forum came with surprised gifts well package envelope to his just concluded birthday and dedication of his church. The secretary to the forum, Dr Daniel was not left behind who says that Church should be acting like a family, come together, share challenges, pray together for the unity of the nation. Chidi Anthony, the president of the forum emphasizes more of the reason for the Pentecostal Ministers Forum is that ‘I found out that the only solution to the problem that Nigeria is going through today is the intervention of God. Men have failed God. People have tried. General election has come and gone, If it was something anybody can do by his own will power, the previous past president could have done that. But they have tried their best but their best was not good enough. So the only thing that can bring peace, sanity and progress in this nation is the intervention of God. So God gave me the vision to organize the ministers together: one to pray for the nation; two, to look into the security in the nation. So we decided to visit the state command the area commands, the DPOs, the CPs, the IG. We do go there to encourage them, to pray for them for God’s wisdom upon them and that God should give them direction more and that they should not die in active service. We do that because they are involved in the act to reduce crime in the nation. So it is our duty as a priest to support them. Like the last time we went to AIG zone two. We gave him award, we prayed for him and encouraged him and we did the little we can. We went to area M and prayed for the Area commander and also encouraged him. We also moved to commands to see the CP. We have also written a letter to the OC SARS, Sanusi, telling them we have seen their good works that we are coming to encourage them to give them awards and the little we can use to encourage their unit. We are doing these things in order to encourage them to reduce crime. You and I know that in the last 7 years, the crime rate in Lagos was about 87… but today its reducing gradually. Why, because we have gallant men that have vowed to do their best to reduce crime in the state and we are trying to encourage them and to give them awards.  How can one benefit from this platform? Is it only meant for a set of people? Some set of people in the sense that we don’t look for external help. We don’t look for partners for now. We try to take the bull by the horn for now. Before you belong to this forum you must be a general overseer of a church. Somebody must introduce you to us that you are a man of integrity that has something to protect. The truth remains that most pastors have soiled their name. That is why most pastors has no regard. So before you be a member of Pentecostal Ministers Forum, you must be a General Overseer of a church. We also want to set up an NGO. We want to put some Police cells in order. Most police cells is nothing to write home about. That you are in the police cell doesn’t mean you committed a crime. You’re just a suspect. So we need to put that place in order. It is only when you have been charged to court and found guilty of an offence that you will be sentenced to prison. We need to make the place comfortable for people when they are on trial. I personally want to bring in the NGO before the forum so that we go to the police station and furnish the cell to make it comfortable. This NGO is what the Forum is trying to bring out. Other benefits still includes any occasion or event organized by any dedicated member of forum is entitled to a million naira. We raise money to support their ministry if the ministry is financially down. And if peradventure we lost any of our member, we will take care of the expenses of the burial then lots of money will be given to the wife of the deceased. For how long has this forum being in existence? It will shock you that this forum is just two years , but we don’t talk about how far. We talk about how well. Any single member of PMF re present up to 5 to 6 to one thousand people. Like in my church we run in thousands. I represent Kings in Christ. So far as I am a member, Kings in Christ is also a member. So all the general overseers you see are men of timbre and caliber. To what extent do you want to take this forum to? As I’m talking to you now we have branches everywhere. We have coordinators in different states. We are expanding daily because the vision comes from God. Anything that comes from God, no power stops it. Are you of the support that some churches and NGO’s are being used for money laundry? No! How can I support such a thing? Money laundry is illegal as far as Nigeria is concerned and it’s a criminal offense. By the way, how can a man of God use himself as an instrument for money laundry? It is a crime. I don’t believe that and I don’t support that and I can never be a party to that. Any pastor found in such an act should be persecuted and should face the law. 