From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka and Romanus Okoye Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State said yesterday that neither him nor the state government has any issue against pro- Biafra agitators. The governor who spoke through Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ogbuefi Tony Nnacheta denied the allegation by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) that he instigated the military exercise code-named   Exercise Python Dance to diminish the struggle of pro-Biafra agitators. IPOB had, in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Emma Powerful at the launch of the army exercise said: “We are going to hold the South East governors responsible if anything happens to anybody in the zone because the Federal Government and the Nigerian Army cannot afford to deploy its weapons in all parts of the South East without the consent of state governors. “The governors of Anambra, Imo and Abia are now together with their counterparts in Enugu and Ebonyi states to kill their kiths and kins.” But Obiano insisted that Anambra State has no agenda against IPOB, MASSOB or anybody else. Nnacheta who addressed newsmen said: “The on-going Exercise Python Dance by the Nigerian Army in the  South-East has been misinterpreted  by some  persons as an exercise designed to inconvenience the Igbo and in particular Ndi-Anambra. “It is mischievously propagated in some quarters as a terrible Christmas gift to our people. Governor Obiano’s statement on the exercise has been distorted by malicious persons in the social media. “The government and people of Anambra State are appalled at these nefarious efforts and condemn it emphatically. “It is incorrect for some persons to suggest that Anambra State is at war or loggerheads with any sect, persons or organisations on account of the ongoing military training exercise.” He assured that the state government would at all times ensure that the rights and comfort of the people were respected by all and sundry. According to the commissioner, “Anambra State is today the safest state in not just Nigeria but West Africa. This is a long leap since the assumption of office of Governor Obiano 33 months ago. “Before this era, kidnappers and other extremely violent criminals were almost overrunning the state, forcing businesses and families to relocate from our state and move to places like Lagos and Abuja. “Our people also began to perform odd things like conducting traditional marriage rites in such places. It is sadly true that some traditional rulers in our state kidnapped during the dark days are yet to be found. We cannot, therefore, forget in a hurry our recent past. “The task of restoring peace and order in our state and ensuring that Anambra State does become what some people may call a failed state marked by lawlessness was a cardinal and early task of the Willie Obiano administration. “The state government worked closely with security agencies to achieve the sustained success in the Anambra. “Cooperation has been the key to the security of lives and property in our state. Members of these organisations discharged their duties  professionally.” “Exercise Python Dance is a routine military exercise by the Nigerian Army in the South East of Nigeria, not only Anambra State. Similar exercises have taken place in other geographical zones of the country without incidents or controversy; Niger Delta and North West being the most recent weeks ago. Moreover, Nnacheta said it was incorrect for some persons to suggest that Anambra State is at war or at loggerheads with any sect, persons or organisations  on account of the ongoing military training exercise. “Rather, the officers and men of the Nigerian Army are enjoined to discharge their duties with courtesy, thereby earning the respect of our people in the entire South East. We are informed that an elaborate Civil-Military Cooperation (CIMIC) Line of Operation has been planned during the exercise, such as medical outreach, repairs of roads, schools and other infrastructure across the South East Region. “The Anambra State Government will at all times ensure that the rights and comfort of our people which are non-negotiable are respected by all and sundry. The government and Ndi Anambra shall together continue to assure that our state remains the safest part of Nigeria and West Africa and eager to welcome our kit and kin to a redoubtable holiday season.  Python dance: We’ve no agenda against pro-Biafra agitators –Obiano From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka and Romanus Okoye  Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State said yesterday that neither him, nor the state government has any issue against pro- Biafra agitators. The governor who spoke through Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ogbuefi Tony Nnacheta denied the allegation by the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) that he instigated the military exercise code-named   Exercise Python Dance to diminish the struggle of pro-Biafra agitators. The IPOB had, in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Emma Powerful at the launch of the army exercise said, “we are going to hold the South East governors responsible if anything happens to anybody in the zone because the Federal Government and the Nigerian Army cannot afford to deploy its weapons in all the parts of South East without the consent of the state governors. “The governors of Anambra, Imo and Abia are now together with their counterparts in Enugu and Ebonyi states to kill their kit and kin.” But yesterday, the government of Anambra State insisted that “Anambra State has no agenda against IPOB, MASSOB or anybody else, we have no issues with them. Governor Obiano has no issue with them.” Nnacheta who addressed newsmen further said, “The on-going Exercise Python Dance by the Nigerian Army in the  South-East has been misinterpreted  by some  persons as an exercise designed to inconvenience the Igbo and in particular Ndi Anambra. “It is, mischievously propagated in some quarters as a terrible Christmas gift to our people. Governor Obiano’s statement on the exercise has been distorted by malicious persons in the social media. The government and people of Anambra State are appalled at these nefarious efforts and condemn it emphatically. “Exercise Python Dance is a routine military exercise by the Nigerian Army in the South-East of Nigeria, not only Anambra State. Similar exercises have taken place in other geo-political zones of the country without any incidents or controversy, Niger Delta and the North-West being most recent, weeks ago. “It is incorrect for some persons to suggest that Anambra State is at war or loggerheads with any sect, persons or organisations on account of the ongoing military training exercise.” He assured that the state government would at all times ensure that the rights and comfort of the people were respected by all and sundry. The Commissioner for Information and was not designed to inconvenience the Igbo and Ndi Anambra in particular. The commissioner made this clarification in a press statement issued in Awka. “Anambra State is today the safest state in not just Nigeria but West Africa. This is a long leap since the assumption of office of Governor Willie Obiano 33 months ago. Before this era, kidnappers and other extremely violent criminals were almost overrunning the state, forcing businesses and families to relocate from our state and move to places like Lagos and Abuja. Our people also began to perform odd things like conducting traditional marriage rites in such places. It is sadly true that some traditional rulers in our state kidnapped during the dark days are yet to be found. We cannot, therefore, forget in a hurry our recent past. According to him, the ongoing Exercise Python Dance by the Nigerian Army in the South East has been mis-presented by some persons  as an exercise designed to inconvenience the Igbo and in particular Ndi Anambra. “It is mischievously propagated by some quarters as a terrible Christmas gift to our people. Governor Obiano’s statement on the exercise has been distorted by malicious persons on the social media. The government and people of Anambra State are appalled at these nefarious efforts and condemn it emphatically. “The task of restoring peace and order in our state and ensuring that Anambra State does become what some people may call a failed state marked by lawlessness was a cardinal and early task of the Willie Obiano administration. The state government worked closely with security agencies to achieve the sustained success in the Anambra. Cooperation has been the key to the security of lives and property in our state. Members of these organisations discharged their duties  professionally. “Exercise Python Dance is a routine military exercise by the Nigerian Army in the South East of Nigeria, not only Anambra State. Similar exercises have taken place in other geographical zones of the country without incidents or controversy; Niger Delta and North West being the most recent weeks ago. Moreover, Nnacheta said it was incorrect for some persons to suggest that Anambra State is at war or at loggerheads with any sect, persons or organisations  on account of the ongoing military training exercise. “Rather, the officers and men of the Nigerian Army are enjoined to discharge their duties with courtesy, thereby earning the respect of our people in the entire South East. We are informed that an elaborate Civil-Military Cooperation (CIMIC) Line of Operation has been planned during the exercise, such as medical outreach, repairs of roads, schools and other infrastructure across the South East Region. “The Anambra State Government will at all times ensure that the rights and comfort of our people which are non-negotiable are respected by all and sundry. The government and Ndi Anambra shall together continue to assure that our state remains the safest part of Nigeria and West Africa and eager to welcome our kit and kin to a redoubtable holiday season.