By CHIDI OBINECHE Some have dubbed his effusions on the heels of the protest by Falcon players last week a faux pax. Others insist it was an icy bee’s hum in a fallowing farm. Yet, some discerning buffs argue it was a stench of indiscreet intervention on the edge of a hive; a combustible medley, waiting for a matchstick. From whatever prism of evaluation, Nigeria’s combative looking Minister of Sports and Youth, Solomon  Dalung got his sticky hands in the cooking jar. He stalked the open- sesame of putrid and rancid mouth diarrhea.
It was a dice that left many hurtling with flaming anger and forlornness. And dried up the victory songs of Nigerians in their throats. Was it hubris or the ingrained indecorous “political talk” which compel Nigerian leaders to rationalize the most incomprehensible? that man has become God, and the glistening oceans of the world have ebbed?  What seal took over his lips when he said “Don’t forget that nobody even knew the team would emerge victorious.
“If we were confident they would emerge victorious, all the federation would have done is to plan for process of participation and entitlement.” Was it an official stamp of the long held belief that Nigerians go for tournaments and competitions for the fun, jamboree  and pocket-lining value and not for the silverware?  What compulsive sting of inebriation will cascade a passion-driven poke of entreaty into the path of thorny anecdotes? He has since pleaded a misinterpretation of the context by the ever bullied, jaundiced, scape-goateed journalists.
But a harder look at the words of his mouth does not vary the context from the popular interpretation of the reporters. Dalung, in  the most unseen manner has stoked the cymbals of our blazing embers. And the echoes will resonate in the laughing sun.
Born on September 26, 1964, he had his Primary School Education at Local Education Authority Primary School Sabon Gida town, in Langtang South Local Gvernment Area, LGA of Plateau State between 1971 and 1977. He attended the Government College, Keffi, Nasarawa State for his secondary school education. In 1982, he served with the Prisons Service as Prisons Assistant and rose to become Assistant Inspector of Prisons.
While in service, he enrolled to study Law at the University of Jos in 1991, graduating in 2000. He was called to the bar in 2001, and transferred to the legal department at Prisons headquarters, Abuja as Legal Officer11, prior to his retirement. He thereafter became Personal Asssistant, PA to the late Solomon Lar who was appointed Adviser Emeritus to ex- president Olusegun Obasanjo in 2003.
In 2004, he became a lecturer at the University of Jos. He obtained a post-graduate degree in Law in 2007 and the same year became the Chairman of Langtang South LGA(2007- 2008), concurrently serving as Deputy Chairman and later Chairman of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria, (ALGON). He was a member of the Northern Elders Forum, NEF anf President Buhari’s Transition Committee, before inauguration.
He lost his bid to represent Langtang North and South at the National Assembly. In Lagtang South, he is popularly known as “the man who brought coloured roofing sheets” due to his massive transformation of public facilities during his tenure as chairman.