By Zika Bobby Member, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka has called on those asking Governor Willie Obiano to prepare his handover note after the 2017 governorship election to wait and get it in 2021 when the governor would be rounding up his second term in office. The Igbo leader is reacting to an earlier comment by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, on Monday, where he asked Governor  Obiano to start writing his handover notes. Ngige, who spoke at a press conference in Awka, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) would contest the governorship election in the state fully  and win. Ezeonwuka said the minister must be day dreaming to believe that the APC will unseat APGA in Anambra. “Ngige seems to have forgotten so quickly what APGA did to him in the Senate race. “He has forgotten that Anambra is APGA’s strongest base. APC and Ngige should get ready to write a congratulatory speech when Governor Obiano wins in 2017. Obiano’s second term as governor is a done deal and there is no contest as far as the good people of Anambra State are concerned.” Ngige is only day-dreaming,” he said. Meanwhile, Anambra North youths under the aegis of Odinma Anambra North Youths Initiatives (ODIANYI), the umbrella body of all youths in the Anambra North senatorial zone of the state has kicked against re-election bid of Governor Willie Obiano for a second term in office. The youths called for his replacement with a vibrant youth who is tested, experienced, who also understands the political terrain of the state. The youth who declared this yesterday to newsmen after their meeting on the growing background of under-ground re-election campaign by many groups and individuals for  re-election of Governor Obiano at Otuocha the headquarters of Anambra East Local Government Area. The Ogirisi Igbo said the people of Anambra State has already judged Obiano based on his wonderful performance. “The people are not ready to unseat a working governor who, in so many ways has transformed the lives of the people and the state. In all the states of the federation Anambra is first in security, education, agriculture. The state has never had  it so good in so many years. The governor has done well and the people have said he must continue. Even the minister know this. So for him to now condemn the good work of a working governor makes many wonder whether he truly wants the best for Anambra,” he said. 