It was a day of glory for Theodore Okwu Ejike Ekechi, chairman of Marketing and Media Limited as well as Allianz Media Limited, as he was conferred with the title of Araba (the big tree) of Temidire-Ekiti, in Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State. He was bestowed the honour by Oba Ayodele Kupoluyi, the Amuro of Temidire-Ekiti and chief executive officer of Starcom Media Limited. The monarch said: “My decision to confer honorary title on some of my friends and community leaders was informed by their contributions to my career and by extension the development of our dear community. They have become part of us in this community and I am not in doubt that the partnership would take further develop the town.” Apart from Ekechi, others conferred with titles included Benedicta, Ekechi’s wife, who was installed as Yeye Araba; Chief Olatunbosun Isijola, as Bobagunwa; Solagbade Alabi, as Bobajiroro; his wife, Magdalene, as Yeye Bobajiroro; Sir Dozie Mbanefo as Gbobaniyi and Chief Ojo Afolayan as Asojuoba. As Araba, Ekechi was reminded that he has now become the big tree under whom the town runs to for protection. And he has this to say about the title: “With the acceptance of the title, it implies that I have made a commitment to the aspirations of the community. For a community to which I have a title as high as Araba, I have to be committed to its progress. I have accepted to be defined by that which they value so naturally. I must be showing interest in what happens in this community.” He stated that being given a high traditional title in the heart of Yorubaland was an indication that there is indeed the possibility of a handshake across the Niger. He said the title Araba in Igbo language, means Okosisi, which translates to the unshakeable tree in the forest that serves as landmark of that forest: “This title signifies that Nigeria has a greater future as a prosperous and peaceful entity. I see this title as symbolic and very significant in within the circumstances of Nigeria’s geo-political equation where is there is so much cry of divisiveness from different extremes of the country. For this (title) to happen, there is indeed handshake across the Niger.” Ekechi is not new to big titles. A couple of years ago, he was installed as the Eji Ejemba of Ngor Okapala, comprising 31 autonomous communities in his native Imo State. He said the title put him in a position where he has to look after the welfare of over 30 autonomous communities. The Elekole of Ikole Ekiti and paramount ruler of Egbeoba Land, Oba Adewumi Fasiku, led other royal fathers to the ceremony. The Igbo community in Ikole LG was not left out. One of them, Mike Agoawike, said: “I am an indigene of Imo State but have been in Ikole for 13 years. Though not invited for this event, I was shocked when I heard on radio that Ekechi, a man of honour from my state, would be honoured in Temidire. I didn’t know him but was moved by what I heard about him during my last visit to the village for Christmas. He has helped many people and did a lot of things to move our state forward.” Chairman of the coronation anniversary planning committee, Chief Gbenga Babalola, said: “Within the last one year on the throne of his fathers, he has been able to achieve what has not been possible in our 63 years of existence in Temidire.” The monarch said ascending the throne was the last thing in his mind as a media and advertising professional. He explained that in the last one year had been challenging for him. He said that the support he received from the people has been of invaluable help: “We are committed to peace, unity and development of our community. This is our focus and we are committed to delivering that within the shortest possible time.”