•Group protests against sect leader in Abuja By Adetutu Folasade-Koyi and Godwin Tsa Almost a year after members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), known as Shi’ites, clashed with the Nigerian Army, leaving many dead, Kaduna State Government has officially branded the group as  insurgents.
This was contained in a White Paper released by  Governor Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai’sm office, yesterday.
Besides, the state government has indicated readiness to prosecute detained Shi’ite leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, holding him solely responsible for the December 12-14, 2015 clash and deaths, therefrom.
“For all intent and purpose, the IMN is an insurgent group and ought to be treated as such,” the government said in the white paper. IMN members owe absolute loyalty to El-Zakzaky. He bears responsibility for all the acts of lawlessness committed by the organisation and should therefore be held responsible, fully investigated and prosecuted.”
In the White Paper, the state government also indicated it may not prosecute soldiers involved in the killing of over 300 Shi’ites, but may leave their prosecution to the Federal Government.
On January 29, 2016, the state government set up a 13-man Judicial Commission of Inquiry under the chairmanship of Justice Mohammed Lawal Garba, presiding judge of the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal.
The panel submitted the report in July and consequent upon that, set up a committee of senior public servants to prepare a draft White Paper.
After deliberations on the draft White Paper by the Kaduna State Security Council, it was subjected to further review by the Kaduna State Executive Council which amended and approved the White Paper.
The state government said  the army killed 347 Shi’ites and recommended court martial of indicted officers.
“Regarding the clashes in the Gyallesu area of Zaria where the army mounted a cordon and search operation, the White Paper observed that many civilians were evacuated from Gyallesu, but that IMN members rejected the opportunity to vacate the area. The White Paper also acknowledged that the army abided by its Rules of Engagement and further observed that: “With regards to the findings of the commission on the conduct of the army, the state government noted the recommendation that members of the army that may have been involved in the unlawful killing of 347 citizens should be brought to trial before a court of competent jurisdiction.
“Kaduna State Government is assured that the federal government will not condone unlawful killing of any citizen and that this conduct will be further investigated and any culprits identified will first be subjected to court martial by the federal authorities, followed by civil prosecution by the state government.”
Meanwhile, a group of people stormed Abuja Division of the Federal High Court to protest against Justice Gabriel Kolawole’s judgment  that El-Zakzaky be released unconditionally.
Operating under the umbrella of the Coalition on Good Governance and Change Initiative (CGGCI), they aggrieved protesters condemned the judgement, describing what  “a dangerous precedent would have on law enforcement, security, anti-terror fight, terrorism, extremism and secessionist movements in Nigeria.”
National Chairman of the group, Okpokwu Ogenyi, said the judiciary has dealt a fresh blow to the future of Nigeria by legalizing terrorism while leaving the rest of the people at risk of losing our lives.