Ever since she hit the motion picture industry in 2005, star actress, Chika Ike, has continued to hug the limelight. Not even her divorce from her husband or the death of her mum could stop her. In this chat with RITA OKOYE, Ike opens up on her career, late mum, and why she will never undergo body enhancement surgery. You look so good. How are you coping with the recession? To be honest, it is affecting everyone. Businesses are folding up every day. But I guess we just have to go through all these for a reason. Americans too went through recession and survived, so it is the ability to survive after the recession that matters. I have a strategy. I tell myself everyday that I must survive till the recession ends; I just have to look for ways to survive. For over a decade you have been active as an actress. Is Chika Ike fulfilled? No, I am not fulfilled. I must confess, there are certain things I haven’t achieved. And when I wake up in the morning, my prayer is that I should actualise my dreams and hit the peak of my career. I am not yet fulfilled. What is new about your initiative, African Diva reality TV show? Wow! It has been a great experience. The season 1 was a blast and for the season 2 we had three girls each from four African countries and the rest from Nigeria; it was well organized. It has better picture quality, the girls are more organised and the tasks are more interesting. You have been in Nollywood for a while, what is the secret to your longevity? Life is all about growth. The day you stop growing you start dying. Not being satisfied and the fear of failure scare me like hell. It makes me to work harder every day. As an actress, has Nollywood been fair to you? I have been acting since 2005. I knew there was a world I could conquer back then beyond the walls of my father’s bakery at Ikotun-Egbe area of Lagos State. It has been 11 years of rewards. AY the comedian is breaking new grounds and has made it to the Guinness Book of World Records. What would you want to be remembered for? Let me start by tapping into AY’s blessings (laughter). Honestly, I want to get to higher places, but we all know that no matter how far and wide you project, you can only get there by the grace of God. From my recent experiences, I know it is all about God and His plans for me. I know he would crown my efforts and hard work with great success at the appointed time. Plastic surgery is the trend today. Would you ever go under the knife to correct or enhance any part of your body? No! I won’t. I am comfortable in my skin and looks, but that doesn’t mean I am against those that did or want to go through plastic surgery. I am beautifully made by God so, there is no need to go under the knife. Your mum was a pastor before she passed on some months ago, how did she influence you? Mum was a very strong woman. There was something she always told me ‘don’t let anyone intimidate you and always be confident.’ Mum preached the gospel all over the world – America, London, everywhere. She was like a role model to me. She shaped me into the woman I am today.