…As stakeholders praise Nigerian Breweries for making millionaires out of poor teachers The quest for the best teacher in public secondary schools in Nigeria this year came to a glorious end inside the prestigious Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos, recently, when Mr. Imoh Essien, a teacher with Special Education Centre for Exceptional Children, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, emerged the 2016 Maltina Teacher of the Year at the grand finale in Lagos.
For the feat, Mr. Essien was rewarded with N1 million in addition to N500, 000 he received as his state’s champion. In addition, he is to continue to get N1m every year for the next five years, participate in a training programme abroad. In keeping with the tradition, a block of six classrooms is to be built for his school.
Essien, a teacher of Computer, Basic Sciences and Physical Education revealed that he draws his inspiration for teaching from his fun-loving personality through which he is able to help children with special needs. He added that a strong emotional and mental stability is vital in positively impacting children with special needs, a job he has done for twelve years.
Mohammed Binta Lawan, an English teacher from Borno State, who was the first runner-up last year, repeated the feat this year, while Ogwu Patrick from Government Day Secondary School, Adankolo, Lokoja, Kogi State emerged the second runner-up.
While welcoming guests to the event, the Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Mr. Nicolaas Vervelde explained that Nigerian Breweries operates with a philosophy of “Winning with Nigeria” and has championed causes that add value to the society since its inception in 1946.
“In 1994, we raised the profile of our support of the education sector when we established the Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund to enable us contribute to the development of the sector,” he said. “Everywhere in the world, teachers play a vital role in sustainable national development by training, coaching and modeling which is critical to determining the quality of education.”
While informing that the company recently handed over a twin 3-bedroom staff residence to Federal Government Girls College, Onitsha, in honour of last year’s winner, Mrs. Roseline Obi, he thanked stakeholders in the education sector, especially the Federal Ministry of Education, the ministries of education in all the states across the country, the Nigerian Union of Teachers, the All Nigeria Conference of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria amongst several others, for their support.
Prof Anthony Anwukah, the Minister of State for Education commended the initiative and described it as laudable. He advised teachers to invest in themselves to raise their standard, adding that the ministry looks forward to signing the Memorandum of Understanding with Nigerian Breweries on the Maltina Teacher of the Year initiative.
Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr. Oluranti Adebule, who was represented by Mrs. Ajoke Gbeleyi, Director of Private and Special Education, Lagos State Ministry of Education, described teachers as the most critical asset of the nation and thanked Nigerian Breweries for the initiative she described as a big boost to teachers and the teaching profession.
Other stakeholders in the education sector who praised Nigerian Breweries for the initiative that has made millionaires of teachers include Agboola Alphonso, a curriculum expert and education consultant, who enjoined other corporate organisations to emulate Nigerian Breweries to collectively rescue the nation’s education system.
Mrs. Adetoun Olufemi, a secondary school teacher in Abeokuta, Ogun State, who regretted not entering for the award, also praised the brains behind the initiative which she said remains a big booster to teachers’ motivation.
The acting Deputy General Secretary of the NUT, Comrade Wole Oyeniyi stated that the union also appreciates Maltina’s role in bringing back the lost glory of the teaching profession.
“This is the first time that an organization is putting up a project of this magnitude for teachers in Nigeria. We really appreciate you and the contribution your organization is making towards the improvement of education sector in Nigeria.”
Pat Utomi, the chairman of the jury revealed that the job of selecting the winners was challenging but enormously important because of the role teachers play in moulding children.
Last year, a 37-year-old teacher from Anambra State, Mrs. Rose Nkemdilim Obi, emerged winner of the maiden edition of the Maltina Teacher-of-the-Year. 