From Okey Sampson, Aba All Progressives Congress (APC), Abia State chapter has condemned the recent attacks on the former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu by a member of the party in the state, Prince Paul Ikonne, for joining APC.
The party said he (Ikonne) assumed what he was not. This is equally as the party disassociated itself from the statement credited to Ikonne that Kalu’s joining the APC would add no value to the party, but would cause confusion.
The state Publicity Secretary of the party, Benedict Godson said it was wrong for Ikonne to have made such sweeping statement that bore no facts and truth.
“I am the spokesperson of the party in Abia; Prince Ikonne is just the deputy chairman of the party in Abia South and he does not in anyway have the right of the party to speak for the party. What he said does not hold water, it does not have facts, it’s not the truth. That was his personal opinion. But the party has disassociated itself from that statement. Kalu’s joining of APC is a plus and a welcome development.”
Godson said by making that statement, Prince Ikonne assumed what he was not. He implored the public not to listen to Ikonne on this issue as it was only him (publicity secretary) or the state chairman of the party that has the authority to speak on issues affecting the party. He stressed that Kalu’s joining of the party was God’s blessing to APC.
“I will like to tell the general public that nobody should listen to Ikonne on this issue, nobody should listen to side stories. If you want to hear the position of the party on any issue, the state chairman and I are always there.
“Kalu has done well, he is a man of the people and we believe he is going to bring massive contribution and change to this party. We want to tell the world that the coming of Kalu into APC is God’s blessing to us and we’ve received him. Because of Kalu’s joining of APC, we’ve received over 5, 000 defectors from PPA, from APGA and PDP and more are still going to join.
“If Paul Ikonne is popular, he should show this now that his younger brother is contesting the chairmanship election for Aba North Local Government on the platform of APC. He is the deputy chairman of APC in Abia South and as such should concern himself with what happens in his zone and not to assume what he is not.”
The state publicity secretary said this same Ikonne castigated Senator Nkechi Nwogu in no strong terms when she joined APC and advised him to participate in programmes that would build the party instead of engaging in acts that would pull it down.
While accusing Ikonne of playing someone’s script to destroy the party in the state by casting aspersions on personalities that have come to build the party, Godson said APC’s sledge hammer could not fall on him (Ikonne) because he went behind to apologise to the former governor.
“The party could have meted out adequate sanctions but for measures taken by Ikonne himself. Put your investigations down, the same Ikonne who made those unguided statements has gone to apologise to Kalu privately.
“He did the same thing to Senator Nwogu and I don’t know what he stands to gain from this, but all I want to say on behalf of the party is that Kalu is an asset to the party and we are happy he has finally joined APC.”