Daughter pleads for her release By Christopher Oji Two armed men yesterday stormed Tastee Fried Chicken (TFC) at  22 Road, FESTAC Town, Lagos and abducted a personnel of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Comfort Alaba. She is attached to Tin can Island Command SDV, one of the bonded terminals of the NCS. The victim was in front of the TFC with her two daughters when the gunmen got out of their car and picked her up. One of her daughters, Faith, went on social media to disseminate the information, calling on Nigerians to help them be on the watch for the kiddnapers’ operational vehicle. Tweeting from @Pyt_Faith,  the abductee’s daughter said:”My mother was kidnapped this evening in front of me and my younger sister in a black Murano jeep. Please,  help me. “We were at TFC at 22 Road, FESTAC outside in the car and two men came around. My sister ran out of the car. My mother was still screaming and struggling when the other one pointed a gun at me. “We ran away and by the time we looked back as we were screaming for help, they zoomed off.” Please reach me and my family here on 08166098469. She was in a black Murano jeep. This is the plate number -EPE103CY. God, please, don’t let my enemies laugh at me. She is everything to us.” When contacted, Faith said, “it was on 22 Road by TFC when two unmasked men came out of their vehicle with guns and kidnapped my mother. “I saw them at close range,  but I won’t be able to recognise them. I don’t know if anyone has any grudge against my mum,  but I am appealing to them to please, free her. “Already, we have notified the police at Area E, but nothing had been done so far to the best of our knowledge. However, we have not been contacted by the kidnappers. “My mother is smallish in stature. She has gap teeth and has a huge birthmark on her arm, which is arrow- like shaped.” Uche Ejesieme, a Chief Superintendent of Customs, the spokesperson of the Tincan Island Command, confirmed the incident, adding that they have informed the headquarters. He said: “The lady is attached to SDV, one of Customs bonded terminal, attached to Tincan Island Command.”