From Wole Balogun, Ado-Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, yesterday distributed food items to people in the state in furtherance of his stomach infrastructure programme, even as he assured Ekiti people that his administration was very much on course not minding the financial challenge facing it and distractions from the opposition.
Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Idowu Adelusi, in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, the governor said food items and soup condiments would soon be distributed widely to common people in the state to cushion the effect of economic recession on the people.
“This yuletide season, our stomach infrastructure is going to take care of people from different categories, just as we have started out social security scheme through which ‎10,000 people are paid N5, 000 stipend monthly. We are starting a new scheme of taking care of our teenagers too.
“Next year is going to be a year of celebrating our women and come next March the International Women’s Day will be marked with pomp in Ekiti State. We have to celebrate our women and ensure they are given a place of pride in our state,” he said.
He added that ongoing capital projects would be completed as scheduled, while the welfare of the people of the state would continue to be given top priority.
The governor also urged the people of the state not to be distracted by the rumours and falsehood being peddled by some people who would not see anything good in what his administration is doing.
“We a‎re constantly monitoring all ongoing capital projects and we are satisfied with the pace of work and we are also confident that the time projected to complete them will be met. The flyover in Ado-Ekiti, the new Governor’s Office, the new High Court Complex, the new Ojaba Market will be delivered next year.
“We have paid compensation to those whose buildings and structures were affected by the last phase of the dualisation of Ikere Road. Early next year, we will start work and take the project to the roundabout in the town. Other towns where pro‎jects are ongoing won’t be left unattended to. They will be completed as we are not going to leave any project abandoned.
“Just as we promised, we won’t leave any worker salary unpaid. We are working diligently on that too and to start with, by next year, we are committing N50 million to the provision and renovation of furniture ‎in offices at the State Secretariat. Also, another N50 million is to be spent on the fencing of the state secretariat.
The governor added that those peddling rumours about the money coming to the purse of the state were only being mischievous.
“There is nothing about the finances of the state that is hidden. We are transparent ‎and run a transparent government. Whatever comes to the purse of the state is openly declared apart from the fact that such is published in national dailies,” he stated.
Governor Fayose further solicited the support of the people of the state for his administration, promising to always justify the confidence reposed in him. 