• Group backs Atiku for 2019 Presidency By Dickson Okafor Former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has denied plotting to leave the All Progressives Congress (APC) for a new party.
In some tweets on his Twitter handle, @AsiwajuTinubu, yesterday, Tinubu said he will not “engage in destructive pettiness. In our journey to national betterment, plans and policies will be made, then, amended. Mistakes will occur and then, corrected.
“This is a party I laboured with others to build. We will not abandon it for another. Millions of Nigerians who voted are watching and praying.
“Achievements will be had and replicated. Through it all, I, Asiwaju, will remain true to the progressive ideals that fuelled the creation of APC. I have devoted my political life to achieve what has been achieved. My heart is too much of the people and my mind, too fixed on establishing positive historic legacy… rather than engage in destructive pettiness.
“This government, APC, is for the betterment of the people and the national purpose is bigger and more important than any individual’s desires.”
There had been reports that Tinubu was on his way out of the party, citing some differences with the party’s leadership; in the run-up to Ondo State governorship election, among other issues.
Although Tinubu played pivotal role in the formation of the APC and the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari, reports alleged he was working with former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and some chieftains of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to form a mega party, ahead of the 2019 general elections.
Shortly after his perceived candidate in Ondo, Segun Abraham lost the APC ticket, Tinubu openly demanded the resignation of National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, when he alleged the party chair colluded with “mercenary forces” to doctor the delegates list which produced Governor-elect, Chief Rotimi Akereoldu as candidate, then.
Meanwhile, Dynamic Youth Organisation of Nigeria (DYON) has thrown its weight behind Atiku to run for the presidency in 2019.
Making the declaration, at the weekend, in Lagos, National President of the group, Chief Elvis Obiekwe said “for the APC to retain power and sustain good governance as exhibited by President Buhari, Atiku’s administrative prowess is needed to help steer the nation out of economic recession.”
Obiekwe warned those fanning embers of discord between Buhari and Atiku to desist and insisted there is no stipulated time in the Constitution when a person should show that he or she is interested in contesting for any political office. The group said this is not the first time it is backing Atiku for president and promised its unflinching support for the Turaki of Adamawa.