Former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Kalu, has said it is beneficial for the South East to join the All Progressives Congress (APC), in order to belong and exploit benefits of being in mainstream, national politics.
Kalu made the call during an interaction with journalists at his Camp Neya country home at Igbere, in Bende Local Government Area of the state.
He said the South East will contribute more towards the good of the people of the region when they stop being in opposition and, instead, stand with the decision-makers in the ruling party.
“Ndigbo should join APC so as to enable them to sit where other Nigerians are seated to decide on how to move the nation forward.”
Kalu said victories recorded by APC in the Edo and Ondo governorship elections has proved that the APC has become acceptable to Nigerians.
“APC’s electoral victories in Edo and Ondo clearly show the popularity of the party. So, I did not make any mistake in taking Igbo into national politics, where other Nigerians are seated. That is where I want the Igbos to sit.
“There is nothing wrong in our joining the APC for us to be able to sit where other Nigerians are seated. That is more important to me.”
Kalu said it is imperative for other prominent Igbo politicians to swell the number of people from the South East region in APC, including Minister of Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige, and Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, among others.
The former governor commended President Muhammadu Buhari for fulfilling his promise to resume work on federal roads in the South East. “During my visit to the president, he made a promise to me, and other leaders, three months ago, that, all the contractors would be back to federal roads before the end of November.
“Today, if you go to every federal road in Eastern Nigeria, you will see that all the contractors are back fully and this is why I joined APC. I didn’t join the party on selfish basis…”
I joined because the president made a promise and I have seen that the contractors are back to site. And if they are back, why can’t I believe him? He will do more.”
Kalu further said that his interest was for the South East to have good roads, security and opportunities to trade and achieve prosperity.
The former governor further spoke on the current economic recession in the country.
He said, “All the nations of the world are going through recession. Nigeria is not an exception. I’m an international businessman. I am crying in all the countries I am doing business.
“From one country to the other, the story is the same; so we are crying there as we are crying in Nigeria.”
Kalu urged President Buhari to pay attention to the economy, as he had done to security.