SINGER, Anyang Opeyemi Enoch is one act determined to carve a niche for himself in the Nigerian music scene. In this chat with CHRISTIAN AGADIBE, Enoch reveals that he has crush for Yemi Alade and talks about his new single, African Lady, and what Majek Fshekl told him. Excerpt: Tell us about your background? My name is Anyang Opeyemi Enoch. We are 11 in the family and I’m the last child. Which artiste has influenced you most musically? Majek Fashek. He is very spiritual and his music has impacted my life tremendously. I met Majek Fashek through a friend of mine, Victor Kanu, who came from Italy. Victor and Majek were very supportive. Victor tried managing me but I went back to school so we parted ways. However, they gave me a platform at EmberCreek. In 2010 I launched my first album there but I didn’t sell the album. I had to back down and concentrate on my adademics. What is the best advice Majek gave you? The first thing Majek told me was, ‘young man, you are very handsome but for now, avoid women and pray hard.’ And he also told me something that I have never heard before. He said he fasted for seven days and nights without food and water for the success of his debut album, Send Down The Rain. Tell us about your debut album? International MC was influenced by the fact that I have performed in different places mostly West African countries like Cote d’ Ivoire, Togo, Benin Republic and The Congo. How do you get inspiration? I get inspiration from my experiences, my environment and from people around me. Sometimes, most of my songs are not really me, they are reflection of people’s experiences and their attitude towards life. What kind of music do you play? Basically, I do R&B pop but I infuse Afro into it. Which celebrity do you have crush on? The person I want is married and the next one is Yemi Alade. I performed with her at Industry Night in 2010 alongside Waje. Back then she had just won a music competition. She was good looking and sang well. I must confess I liked her but she hassince moved on and that’s life. She is the only person right now that I have a crush on. What are you currently working on? Right now I’m working on a party track entitled Lady Africa. It is a song that addresses the African woman and I’m hoping that I can feature another crazy artist. 