• My brother needs help –Jude By Tony Ogaga Erhariefe
THE music partnership of twins, Paul and Peter Okoye is under threat yesterday when one twin sacked their elder brother, Jude, as their manager.
For 16 years, P-square have been record-produc­ing musicians with Jude as manager.
Though the rumour had been making the rounds for a while that all was not well with P-Square and their brother, Jude, the lid finally blew open on Wednesday, when Peter took to Twitter and fired Jude in a series of tweets!
An obviously angry Pe­ter expressed his frustration working with Jude before finally sacking him.
Addressing P-Square fans, he tweeted: “P-Square fans, I know you all have been asking a lot of ques­tion concerning us. Some ask: ‘why on social media?’ Do I have a choice?”
Peter insisted in his flossy of tweets it was wrong for Jude to insist that he must remain P-Square’s man­ager. He reiterated that his decision is final.
In response, Jude tweeted that Peter needed help.
“You said I need prayers, bro, you need God!” Peter tweeted back and declared that “Peter and Paul is P-Square and Jude must ac­cept it that way.”
He added that for over four years, he had been managing Jude and his an­tics but now was the time to take action.
“I have been nurturing and managing these prob­lems for over four years now. Don’t take my silence as a weakness,” he added.
However, in order to reassure fans that all was well with him and Paul, his twin and the other half of P-Square, Peter tweeted again: “P-Square is not breaking up. I stand here to defend P-Square 100 per cent. And, for those who will start saying P-Square is breaking up, we are not. Just that the management needs to go. I have regret­ted a lot of things in my life but trust me; this is not one of them. No more family business.”
Again he queried: “How can you run a business without structures? Family business can be pain in the a**!”
However, Peter was not done. He added a dis­claimer stating that who­ever does business with Jude does so at his/her own risk: “Please, whosoever makes any transaction with Northside Entertainment or Jude Okoye on P-Square’s behalf does so at his/her own risk. This is a warning. Peter and Paul is P-Square and every other person is an attachment. Peter and Paul have the right to sack the entire management team; business is business, period!”
Justifying the move, he tweeted again that people change management and Jude’s case is not differ­ent: “Usher Raymond did it, Beyoncé did it as well. So it’s not new. My loyalty for P-Square and the fans still remains 100 per cent. I don’t have a problem with Paul but the management.”
When Daily Sun contact­ed Jude, as soon a request was tendered for his reac­tion, he terminated the call. Repeated calls to his num­ber were ignored including a text message and a mes­sage to him on Twitter.