By Ojieva Ehiosun THE All Progressives Congress (APC) flag bearer for the Septem­ber 10 gubernatorial election, Godwin Obaseki, has reiterated that if elected, his government would be totally committed to positive governance. In a chat with Daily sun in his campaign office in Benin city, the man who has been subjected to criticisms from politicians across the state following his emer­gence as the party’s candidate, appealed to aggrieved members to put the past behind and join hands to ensure that APC retains the seat of governance in the state. He averred that he is or­dained and anointed to serve his people and bring full dividend of democracy to the door step of the people. “For the sake of continu­ity, we must come to together to unite our party and work to­gether to see that we win the forthcoming election in the state. I have a wide vision for the good people of this state. I thank God that our comrade governor, Adams Oshiomhole has laid a strong foundation for develop­ment in the state, and I’m going to Government House to build on the foundation that is already laid. I’m anointed to serve and   not to be served. It is our collec­tive responsibility to build this state. It is not about Godwin Obaseki, it is about the people of Edo. There is no doubt that we must have offended one person or the other during the build up stages to the primaries. I want to say that it is human atimes to err, and divine to forgive. “I have no political enemies, but political opponents and we must put our heads together as one family and one politi­cal party to enable us defeat our political opponents. If we do not put our individual dif­ferences aside, we won’t be able to achieve victory. We should also un­derstand that we have a big battle ahead of us and we cannot afford to underrate the PDP factor but I’m very convinced that victory will smile on us at the end,” he said. He show­ered encomi­ums on party leaders and sup­porters for the honour done him at the primaries, pointing out that he will not disappoint them as the battle is not yet over for them. “I want to thank members of the party, my leaders and most especially party supporters for electing me as the candidate that will hoist the party’s flag at the election; you should understand that the battle has just began; it is not yet Uhuru for us, we have a long way to go.” he said.  