From Judex Okoro, Calabar CROSS River State chapter of the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has berated the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) over call for the impeachment of Governor Ben Ayade. The council described the call as illogical, un­thinkable and indirect way of asking for the im­peachment of President Muhammadu Buhari by the National Assembly. APC had called on the House of Assembly to commence impeach­ment process of the governor citing, among others, insecurity, com­munal clashes, signing of Memorandums of Un­derstanding (MoUs) and travelling as impeach­able offences. IPAC Chairman, Mr. Patrick Ali, in a state­ment yesterday de­scribed the call as ‘reck­less, unpatriotic and wicked’, considering that some of the said-of­fences were not peculiar to the state. Ali said it was the highest level of hypoc­risy for the party to cite insecurity as one of the impeachable offences when it was a known fact that many APC-controlled states, in­cluding Benue, Kaduna, Zamfara, Borno, Imo and Yobe were currently facing different security challenges. Reminding them of the latest killing of over 80 persons by Fulani herdsmen in Benue State, he said APC-led Federal Government under President Mu­hammadu Buhari was also grappling with re­newed insecurity issues. Some of the security challenges faced by APC at national level, he pointed out, included pipeline vandalism by the Niger Delta Aveng­ers (NDA) in the South South; suicide bombings by members of the Boko Haram in the North- East; killings by Fulani herdsmen, especially in the North-Central, South-West and South- East and protests by the Indigenous People of Bi­afra (IPOB) which had led to several deaths in the South-East. “Therefore, APC’s call on the House of As­sembly to impeach the governor if he refuses to resign is illogical and unthinkable and can also be seen as an in­direct call by the party for the impeachment of the president by the Na­tional Assembly despite his efforts to reposition national security just like Governor Ayade is doing.” On communal clash­es, IPAC chairman said: “Communal conflicts in Cross River State are as old as the state and the governor, just like his predecessors, is doing everything within his powers to bring lasting peace among the vari­ous warring communi­ties.” He wondered why APC was complaining of the three signature proj­ects, including the deep seaport, superhighway, establishment of the Green Police and Home­land Security even when President Buhari was in the state to perform the groundbreaking cer­emony of the superhigh­way. Ali urged Cross River people to eschew mal­ice, hatred, party politics and ethnicity, and join hands with the governor to deliver on his cam­paign promises to the people.