Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos state, has described Dino Melaye, the senator representing Kogi west senatorial district at the national assembly, as a “disgrace to the senate”. Reacting to the alleged threat that Melaye issued to Remi, his wife who represents Lagos central senatorial district, Tinubu through Sunday Dare, his spokesman, dared the lawmaker to carry out the act and see if “nothing will happen”. “Dino Malaye sunk to the lowest ever today. From this point, it is downhill for him. A disgrace to the Senate of the Republic,” Tinubu’s spokesman wrote on Twitter. “And if Dino thinks nothing will happen if he dare beats up another senator, then he must be living in a fools paradise. Things will happen.” Melaye, who has been silent on the allegation of threat against his colleague, has rather chosen to address reports of impeachment proceedings against President Muhammadu Buhari. “Senator Dino Melaye has debunked rumours doing the round about his involvement in some moves to impeach the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said in a statement. “It is pertinent to note that the incredulously machinated misinformation was orchestrated by forces bent on destabilising the upper chambers of the Nigerian parliament for selfish reasons. “While I remain unimpeachably committed to the leadership of the senate, I believe the respected arm of government charged with the onerous responsibility of law making should be given the independence to conduct its business. “It is untrue and malicious; the narrative of the attack dogs of demagogues who have decided to turn Nigeria upside down for failing to choose leaders for senators. “I am a responsible Nigerian, role model and a champion of anti-corruption and equity which my party stands for. I therefore urge the general public to discountenance the libellous publication as I will continue to respect the history, culture and excellence of my Kogi West people on the floor of the Senate. “The true threats to the current republic are those who believe a Nigeria not led by them must not exist.” Source: The Cable 