I have been asked this question dunky-times over the years that, I have decided to give it an open treatment. I am tired of explaining severally and variously to different patients what they should do about multi-vitamins.
   Have you ever paused to ask yourself – “why do we eat?” From the day we were born, till the day we die, we must eat. What actually does food do to our body? What is food?
Food is anything that has a chemical composition, which can provide the body with;
   ■ Materials from which it can produce heat, activity, and other forms of energy.
   ■ Materials that can be used for growth, maintenance, repairs and reproduction of the body, and/or;
   ■ Substances to regulate these processes of energy production, growth, repairs, reproduction etc. Note; not everything we eat is food!
    ■ Flavouring, such as saccharine and pepper are not utilised by the body.
   ■ Tea affects the nervous system, and is a drug but not food.
  ■ But, alcohol, though a drug, also provides energy, and so falls within the definition of food.
   ■The constituents of food that are of value to the body are:
      ● Proteins.
      ● Carbohydrates.
      ● Fats.
      ● Vitamins.
      ● Minerals and,
      ● Water.
  ■ Energy is derived from carbohydrates, fats and proteins.
  ■ Growth and repairs, use proteins, minerals & water.
  ■ Control of body processes uses proteins, minerals, vitamins & water.
   What do we actually get from food, when we eat?
Before we talk about multi-vitamins, let us briefly talk about what we get from food. A – Protein
   Protein is the basic chemical unit of the living organism. There is no substitute for protein, for it is the only constituent of food which contains nitrogen – essential for the growth and repair of the body.
   Proteins, infact provide the raw materials for the body tissues and fluids. They also have certain specialised functions. They help to maintain the chemical balance in the brain, spine and the intestine, and they aid in the transportation of food and drugs.
 The 2 main sources of proteins are;
a) Animals in form of meat, fish, egg and diary products.
b) Plants in the form of nuts, peas and beans. B – Carbohydrates
   Carbohydrates provide our main source of energy for immediate use. Energy is used up even during sleep, to keep body organs functioning. Carbohydrates play a vital role, in the proper functioning of internal organs, and central nervous system, and in muscle and heart contractions. Our bodies cannot manufacture carbohydrates, so we get it from plants, or animals that feed on plants.
C – Fats.
   Fat is the most concentrated source of energy . Also when stored in the body, as a layer beneath the skin and around the organs, it provides insulation and protection for body structures. Finally certain fats carry the fat soluble vit A, D, E & K. Fat in the diet falls into 2 categories – a) Sources such as butter, margarine and oils. b) Other sources, meat, fish, eggs etc. D – Vitamins.
   Vitamins are substances found in food in minute amounts. They are needed for the regulation of chemical processes inside the body. And through this, they have an important role;
■ In growth and development.
■ Protection against illness and diseases.
■ There are about 40 known vitamins of which only 12 are essential in the diet.
■ Our problems began when scientists discovered how to manufacture artificial vitamins. Then we started the abuse by over consumption.
■ For example a man needs only an ounce (15mls or 15g) of vitamin, in his lifetime, despite the importance of vitamins.
■ Apart from day to day requirements, increased amount of vitamins do not further any good, and in some cases are actually harmful. Do we really need artificial multi-vitamins?
  ●  The answer is a capital “NO”, provided we take our normal and balanced diet.
   ●  The only time we need artificial multi-vitamins is when we are sick, because by then our body is either too weak to absorb the required multi-vitamins, or we aren’t taking enough food that will supply the required volume.
 ● A lot of people move about with multi-vitamin packs, swallowing them with reckless abandon.
   ●  Some of them have this erroneous belief, that vitamins, even augment their sexual prowess. While others think, quite erroneously, that they need it to face the prolonged stress of their daily job.
    ●  Let me sound a note of warning; most of these multi-vitamins, are not listed in the medical pharmacopoeia. In UK and USA with strict prescription laws, all artificial multivitamins are labelled “food additives”. Their effects on the body are not tested or documented like real drugs.
    ●  We should ask ourselves, what will be the effects of these multivitamins in our bodies in 10 years. For cancer’s sake, we should err on the side of caution.
    ●  If you must embark on a prolonged intake of any multi-vitamins, please consult your doctor.
    ●  God bless you.