By ZIKA BOBBY Igbo leader and member, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka said with Governor Willie Obiano’s developmental stride in Anambra, he would get the people’s mandate to run for a second term. The Ogirisi Igbo said Governor Obiano had turned the fortune of the state around in areas of education, infrastructure, employment, agriculture, health and security, adding that the state was now in the first position in the South East region. “You don’t need a soothsayer to tell you that he has turned the state around. The state’s investment in agriculture is unprecedented. Just recently it got a supply order of N300 million worth of rice. This simply shows that the state is on course to becoming the biggest producer of rice in Nigeria. This is a governor who does not joke with farmers in the state and he has vowed to ensure that there is a huge improvement in agriculture,” he said. On security, Ezeonwuka said the state has never had it this better. “There was a time in this state when you dare not walk the streets of Awka for fear of being kidnapped. Today, the story has changed. This governor has, within a short period, made the state a crime-free zone. Governor Obiano had this in mind before he assumed office, as he figured out that if he could fix Anambra’s security worries, then everything else would follow. He also knew that without a secured Anambra, his Four Pillars of Development namely, Agriculture, Industrialization, Trade and Commerce and Oil and Gas for the state would amount to nothing. And now that he has found the formula for cleansing Anambra of crime and criminals, the outcome has been quiet impressive,” he said. He called on Igbo to unite behind APGA and make it greater, stressing that it remains the true party for the Igbo man. “This is the only party in Nigeria that has full Igbo colouration. This is our party as Igbo people and we must embrace it as our won if we hope to make any meaningful impact in the country,” he said.