…AgroNigeria launches TV programme to attract investment
By Steve Agbota
Infrastructure decay has been described as the major problem the agricultural sector in the country has faced perennially, and which must be fixed urgently for growth to take place.
Against this background, AgroNigeria, an agricultural communication outfit, is embarking on the maiden edition of its television programme, Agro On TV, with the view to ensuring the continuation of sensitisation of the common man on happenings in the farm or in the agricultural sector.
The Chief Executive Officer of AgroNigeria, Richard-Mark Mbaram, said that if government is serious about agriculture, infrastructure has to be fixed across the country.
According to him, the TV programme is aimed at repositioning the agricultural sector, engender the enactment of policies that support international best practice in agriculture in Nigeria.
He said the television programme would focus on engaging the younger generation into agriculture and attracting larger amounts of public and private sector investment into the Nigerian agricultural sector.
He added: “Agro On TV is fully funded from internal resources. It is our contribution to Nigeria; to let everybody know that the time to act on full participation in agriculture is now. The younger generation and the employers of labour should see agriculture as a necessity. Agriculture is a must. If practiced right, it would solve the social and economic problems facing the country.”
He explained: “Agro On TV would be campaigning for increased provision of water, energy and road linkage for agricultural use, especially for smallholder farmers. If these are achieved, there would be higher returns on agricultural investment, and an attendant positive ripple effect on the Nigerian economy would be felt within short periods.”
Agro On TV will feature four segments – “The Pulse”, which chronicles news in the agricultural sector; “Talk Time”, which hosts stakeholders in Nigerian agriculture to discuss trending issues in the sector; “Street Vibes”, which highlights the experiences, opinions and expectations of people on issues relating to agriculture, and “Agro Style”, which features entertainment gist in agriculture.
Of particular importance is Agro Style, which is a media strategy deployed to appeal to the younger generation and sustain their attention in agro-practice. So many attempts have been made in the past to involve the youth in agriculture, all to no avail, hence the introduction of the entertainment segment, which will draw the attention of youths to the sector.