…For admonishing him to be of good behavior From GEORGE ONYEJIUWA, Owerri THE people of Umuoke Otulu Ahiara Auton­omous community in Ahiazu Mbaise Council Area of Imo State are still in shock, weeks after 22-year-old Chukwuebuka Umunna allegedly hacked his grandfather, a centenarian, to death. Umunna committed the horrible and abom­inable act on June 11, 2016, because his grand­father, Anusiem Umunna, had reprimanded and advised him to be of good behaviour. As Sunday Sun learnt from Chigaemezu Umunna, younger brother of the murder suspect, trouble started when the deceased instructed Chukwuebuka to fetch bamboo sticks to support yam tendrils in their farms on that fateful day. Chigamezu said that the suspect ordered him to leave the house or he would deal with him severely. To avoid a confrontation, he left the house, but when he returned, Chigaemezu said that he found their grandfather dead on his seat with deep machete cut on his head with blood oozing from his nose and his mouth. Instantly, he raised the alarm, which attracted neighbours who rushed in to witness the sacrilege. Father of the suspect and second son of the deceased, Mr. Julian Umunna, disclosed that his son dropped out of secondary school and subsequent efforts made by the family for him to acquire vocational skills or learn a trade had failed. His words: “Chukwuebuka has been uncon­trollable and stubborn and he smokes Indian hemp openly and bullies anybody who cautions him. He was quarrelling with my father when I was going to work that morning. I was shocked to hear a few hours later that he had killed my father with a machete. It was a very sad incident because such a thing had never happened in this entire village.” First son of the deceased, Columbus Umunna, who also spoke with Sunday Sun wondered what could have gone wrong with Chukwuebuka, whom, he said, was the favour­ite grandson of his late father. Recalling the moments after he got the terrible news, he said: “I had to rush down from Aba, Abia State as soon I was informed of the unfortunate incident and the first thing that crossed my mind was what could have happened between the two because I know that Chukwuebuka is the favourite grandson of my father. But I was devastated when I heard of the abominable incident because my father was about a 100 years.” He continued: “The entire family is still in shock because nobody would have expected such an ugly incident. I know that Chukwue­buka is a stubborn young man but no one would have thought that he would kill his own grandfather in cold blood. Right now the body of my father has been deposited at the Madonna Hospital mortuary.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Imo State Police Command, DSP Andrew Enwer­em, while confirming the incident said: “This is a murder case and the police are still investigat­ing the matter and as soon the investigation is concluded the suspect will be charged to court. 