CHAIRMAN of Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and Zamfara State Gover­nor, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari, said the 36 state governors are worried about the politi­cal logjam in Abia and are working behind the scene to ensure there is no break­down of law and order in the state. Speaking yesterday when he addressed traditional rulers from Abia, who paid a condolence visit to Sokoto over the death of renowned politician, Alhaji Umaru Shinkafi, Yari said “it is of paramount importance that all sides claiming victory over the governorship con­test respect the courts and avoid acts that will lead to violence.” The royal fathers were led by the chairman of both the South East Council of Tradi­tional Rulers and Abia State Eze Eberechi N. Dick. “As a forum, we are con­cerned about what is going on in Abia and we are work­ing to ensure all sides re­spect the courts and uphold peace. “Abia is known for peace, and, as such, we should not do acts that will disturb the peace of the state,” Yari said. Earlier, in his remarks, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, said the state has a long standing relationship with the people of the South- East and the visit of the traditional rulers on a con­dolence had reaffirmed that relationship. Tambuwal said rather than lay emphasis on things that divide the country, all Nigerians should empha­sise on those aspects that unite the nation. “We are all on a journey to unity, stability and prog­ress of our dear country. Abia state governor is a very good friend of mine, so, I am praying for him to overcome the present chal­lenges he is facing as a pub­lic officer,” he added. On Shinkafi, Tambuwal described him as a man of wisdom and integrity who enjoys the respect and ad­miration of all Nigerians. “No doubt, Shinkafi was the father and architecture of Nigeria’s modern security apparatus. “His ideas and handwork gave birth to our present security structure, so, he fully deserves all the enco­miums that have come his way since his passage,” the governor added. Speaking at the occasion, Eze Eberechi commended Sokoto state government for the warm relationship between indigenes and resi­dents from other states, es­pecially those from South- East, living in Sokoto. 