By WALE OKEDIRAN “WALE, no formal programme, please. I was alarmed when I read, in one of your earlier mail, something like “the programme will begin at some­thing o’clock and should be over by etc.etc.” But choose to let it go. I shall interact with your centre most informally. No structured programme, please!” With the above mail from the Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka, it became very obvious that receiving our august visitor at the Ebedi International Writers Res­idency in Iseyin, Oyo State, would not be as simple as I had earlier thought. It was at the inauguration of Wole Soyinka Foun­dation’s “Ijegba Retreat” for writers in Abeokuta late in 2015 that I casually intimated WS about the Ebedi Writers Residency. I was pleasantly surprised when the Nobel Laureate said he was hearing of the resi­dency for the first time. A few weeks later, precisely in January 2016, I got a mail from WS which threw myself, staff and Board of the Ebedi Writers Residency into ecstasy: the Nobel Laureate would be visiting Ebedi!! Quick­ly, I had called members of Soyinka’s well known inner circle of friends on what to do to make the visit a memorable one. Apart from asking for details of his culinary inclinations, I also asked for the list of those to be invited to welcome our distinguished visitor to Iseyin. WS had also indicated his desire to combine the literary trip with one of his favourite pastimes –hunt­ing. As the literary icon put it: “Have I indicated the following? Planning a visit to your Ebedi Re­treat during the last week of February, depending on scouting reports in some major non-literary pur­suit. Re: Ebedi, will like to explore possibilities of interaction between my Ijegba Retreat programme and yours. What do you suggest would be a good time? Normally, this is the season I should be for­aging around Upper Ogun, so I thought of killing two birds with one stone….hopefully more than two, quite frankly. The guinea-fowl clans would have mi­grated to the scattered green belts still surviving the Harmattan drought.” Although I had previously read of WS’s hunting skills, I never knew it was a near professional one until I read the concluding part of his mail: “Maybe you could also discreetly check for me on any tradi­tional hunting groups. If you hear the name Asimotu in that zone, let me know. He was my night hunt companion of many years. I just hope he hasn’t preceded me to the hunting grounds yonder. Let me know of your findings, if any, and if you’re likely to be around that period. Thanks. WS.” Unknown to me, some of the community leaders in Iseyin and environs were hunters who had pre­viously gone on hunting expeditions with WS. Ac­cording to one of them; “Prof is an ‘Ogboju Ode’ (master hunter). I have been following him hunt­ing ‘aparos’ (guinea fowls) and other animals since 1960’s.” My source also told me to get prepared to join my guest on the hunt. When I protested that I didn’t know anything about hunting, I was assured that Baba, the ‘Ogboju Ode’ will quickly put me through. And just to reassure me of my safety in the bush, the man added: “Prof is not an ordinary per­son. He will protect you.” I dutifully made some enquiries as requested by WS and reported back to the master hunter a few days later: “Further to my last mail, I have some good news for you. Your old hunting pal, Asimotu, aka Asumo, is alive and kicking. My contacts, who are aware of your previous forays in the forests of Upper Ogun (Oke Ogun) confirmed that he is still on this side of the hunting grounds and will be available for your hunting trip as soon as you are ready. He emphasized that your old hunting grounds, which used to be before the Ikere Gorge Dam in Iseyin LGA, has now been moved to the forest after the dam. Once you confirm your hunt­ing dates, we can fix your visit to Ebedi Residency for the day preceding your hunting expedition. The Ebedi event, which can start about 10 am, can be over before 2 pm with enough time for you to com­mence the hunting trip.” With the issue of the literary and hunting events well firmed up, the next problem was how to con­tain the numerous important personalities within and outside Iseyin who were eager to see WS. Kabiyesi, the Aseyin of Iseyin a veterinary doctor and great fan of WS reminded me of the importance of bringing WS to the palace during his visit while some Chiefs and community leaders in the town, the Caretaker Chairman of Iseyin Local Government Council, as well as secondary school Principals, students and teachers were also not to be left out. Again, I consulted the ‘Soyinka Experts’ on how to handle the dilemma. “He loves writers and chil­dren. Just make sure that these groups of people are the first he will meet, then he will not mind who else comes after,” said a family member. I was also warned about his allergy to cameras, flashlights and microphones, including autograph and photograph seekers. “He just gets tripped off at their sight and could bring the event to a sudden halt, so be careful,” we were warned. We were now set for our visitor; however, getting him to give us the exact time of his arrival in Iseyin was a major challenge. Still bent on making the visit an informal one, it was obvious that WS did not want any crowd waiting for him as his latest email suggested. Soyinka was surprised when he met a small group of us waiting to receive him at the entrance to the Barracks area where the residency was located. As WS later alighted from his car on the grounds of the residency, he took a mournful look at the set of cano­pies and chairs and turned to me: “Wale, is this your idea of an informal visit?” Terrified at the thought of his jumping back into his car, I quickly did a double dobale (I prostrated twice), saying: “I am sorry sir; that is the best I could do to handle the crowd that wanted to see you. Believe me, sir; the pressure on me was too much,” At that point, WS caught the sight of Asumo, his old hunting pal whom I had planted at a van­tage point under the canopy. “Is that not Asumo?” he asked, his face radiating with an indescribable joy at the sight of his old ‘partner in crime’. As he moved gracefully to fall into a bear hug with anoth­er ‘ogboju ode’, the motley crowd of media men whom I had hidden under the foliage of a nearby mango tree suddenly came out to record that his­toric moment when two old hunters backslapped and greeted each other in a language only they could understand. Then the students who were under another can­opy on a cue broke into a song of welcome which finally disarmed and enchanted our august visitor. I was now breathing better and, very quickly, used my mobile phone to call the remaining invited guests to start coming to the residency. As previously planned, a set of students groomed by our Ghanaian resident writer, Moffatt Nii Ad­dokwei, sang and did the Ghanaian Kpalongo dance made famous in the 1960s, much to the delight of our august visitor, who was now smiling broadly. The students followed it with a French song which they were taught by the Cameroonian Resident Dze­kashu MacViban. It was now the turn of the writers to receive WS with their poems, songs and short stories. And while most of the writers gave a good account of them­selves, one or two succumbed to stage fright. One young lady writer broke into sweat at the sight of the great man. As she later confessed: “I was over­whelmed by his presence. He is such a handsome old man. What beautiful skin, what lovely white hairs,” she cooed. As I later led WS to the residency proper, it was obvious that we had won him over as hordes of writers, students and guests posed for photographs with him. In addition were the autograph seekers all of whom he attended to without any fuss. That was when I had the nerve to formally introduce him to our invited guests who all later accompanied us to the ‘naming ceremony’ of the rooms in the resi­dency by our visitor. So relaxed and happy was WS that he did not protest when I later informed him of our need to quickly visit the Kabiyesi who had been waiting for him all day. Soyinka, who was warmly welcomed to the pal­ace by the Kabiyesi and his chiefs, spoke in impec­cable Yoruba, to the admiration of the royal father, who confessed that he never knew that WS could speak Yoruba after all the ‘big grammar’ he normal­ly uses in his books. We were soon back to the residency, where guests, students, story tellers and hunters, were treated to a sumptuous lunch. While other guests had one item of meal, as advised, a tray of motley plates of food was brought before WS. And as he was about to give orders for his wine to be brought to him from his car, I quickly stopped him and brought out a bucket of well chilled bottles of wine and beer. He took a look at the labels, smiled and said: “Wale, you must have done some research. Well done.” He later went back to his food and discussion with Asumo as the two old hunters regaled each other with memories of their old hunting days, some very scary, some very interesting. After more than four hours of a memorable visit, it was soon time for the Nobel laureate to take his leave. As he stood up, I asked him when the hunting would commence. I told him I was eager to com­mence my new assignment as an apprentice hunter. He laughed, obviously glad to have won another hunting disciple and said, “I have asked Asumo to stand down the group for now. We have to fix a new date as something that needs my attention in the US just came up.” That is WS for you; always busy, al­ways on the move. And at 80-something years old, he still walked ram rod erect with springy steps, his white mane of hair glistening in the late afternoon sun. Twilight was setting when we finally saw him off to his car. As the car departed the grounds of the Ebedi Residency, a giant whirlwind came hurtling down the nearby mountain side, blew down the val­ley, gathered momentum at our feet and chased after the old man’s car. “Baba o, Ogboju ode”, cried one of the hunters. “I told you he is not an ordinary per­son. In that wind are his anjonus (genies) who are escorting him home.” 