By Our Reporters President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, led a flood of tributes for the late secretary of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Ojo Maduekwe.
In a mesage by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, President Buhari said Maduekwe, who last served as Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Canada, was an ardent believer in the unity of Nigeria and gave all to that pursuit.
Also, former PresidentGoodluck Jonathan expressed grief at Maduekwe’s death.  Jonathan described Maduekwe’s death was “a sad loss for Nigeria.”
In a condolence message by his media adviser, Ikechukwu Eze, the former president affirmed that the late Maduekwe as “a nationalist, foremost administrator and intellectual giant who contributed so much to the task of nation building.”
Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State expressed shock over the death of former minister for Transport. He described Maduekwe’s death as a total tragedy.
His colleague in Delta State, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa said he received news of Maduekwe’s death with sadness and an immense feeling of great national loss.
In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Charles Ehiedu Aniagwu, the governor described Maduekwe as “one of Nigeria’s finest politicians and an epitome of integrity.”
Former governor of Abia state, Kalu, who paid a condolence visit to Maduekwe’s residence in Abuja, yesterday, described the late minister as “a dear brother who contributed in no small way to make Nigeria a better place. Maduekwe was my brother and a dear friend. I knew him for a very long time. Since I joined politics, we were close and worked together for the good of Abia State and Nigeria. Nigeria will miss him. I will miss him. Abia people will miss him. His shoes are too big for anybody to fit into. We pray that God will give his family, Abia people and Nigerians the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.
Factional chairman of the party, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff signed a statement where he bemoaned his death as a personal loss. “Indeed, our hearts bleed over this very huge loss not only to our party but also to our nation at large. Undeniably, our country has lost one of her best. Maduekwe was a great Nigerian, an exceptionally brilliant lawyer, a quintessential administrator and very patriotic citizen.
“As an ambassador and federal minister, Maduekwe discharged his responsibilities with unequaled forthrightness, loyalty and commitment to the service of our dear fatherland. He was a democratic icon and an outstanding party-man who remained committed to the peace, unity and progress of our party till the very end.
“On a personal note, I have known and worked very closely with Chief Maduekwe for about 35 years and found in him a very honest gentleman; a devout Christian, who related with others with the fear of God. The PDP family is, therefore, deeply saddened that he exited the scene at the time the party and, indeed, the nation needed his wealth of experience and leadership role the more…”
Senator Uche Ekwunife described Maduekwe’s death as a rude shock. “He was a great team player who was always on the side of the truth to ensure that there was peace wherever he found himself. His death is a national calamity.”
Meanwhile, it was a rain of tears when sympathisers, yesterday, thronged the home of the late Madukwe’s residence to sign the condolence register. More visitors who could not make it on Wednesday night besieged the home of the late Minister as early as 7:00am yesterday.
Some of the early callers were Ambassadors Ibrahim Kazaure, Dalhatu Tafida, Idris Waziri and others. Other callers outside the diplomatic circle whose presence were conspicuous, were the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Caretaker Committee Chairman, Senator Ahmed Markarfi, former governors of Rivers and Anambra State, Peter Odili, Celestine Omehia and Chukwuemeka Ezeife respectively.
Others included former deputy governor of Plateau State, Mrs. Paulin Tallen, former special assistant to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr. Doyin Okupe, Senator Ben Obi, members of both All Progressive Congress  (APC), and PDP, including the Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly matters (Senate ) Senator Ita Enang. Addressing newsmen shortly after signing the condolence register, presidential aide, Senator Ita Enang described the late Madukwe as a great diplomat who made Nigeria proud in the international community and at federal level where he served in various capacities.
In his tribute, President of Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), Dr Frederick Fasehun, yesterday, said the late Maduekwe elevated Nigeria’s image abroad as Foreign Affairs minister.
Fasehun, who said he was shocked to hear of his death, described Maduekwe as a fine Foreign Affairs minister “who took Nigeria’s image to a desirable level. He was a decent and erudite minister who spoke to the foreign powers as equals…”
Maduekwe, died on Wednesday, in Abuja, at 71 years.
President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the deathh of three prominent Nigerians,Chief Ojo Maduekwe, a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Justice Nikki Tobi, retired Supreme Court judge and Elechi Amadi, a literary icon.
In his tribute to Justice Tobi, Buhari described him as a brave jurist who served Nigeria creditably and brought his many years of training, knowledge and wisdom to the Bench.
The President said he also joins the literary and academic community in mourning Amadi whose writings and postulations as a novelist, poet and playwright introduced many generations of the world to the vibrant Nigerian culture.
“In paying homage to the Man of Letters, visionary and venerated elder who dedicated his life to values of peace, equality, dignity and the reading culture in Nigeria, the President believes that the passing away of Amadi is as much a loss to Nigeria and Africa as it is to the world”, the statement noted.
The President affirmed that the outpouring of grief and tribute across Nigeria and beyond is a testament of the high degree of respect and acceptance Amadi commanded around the world.
He prayed that God will grant the souls of the departed citizens eternal rest and comfort their families, friends and admirers. 