The Presidency has appealed to members of the BringBackOurGirls (BBOG) group not to give up on the efforts of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to rescue the over 200 schoolgirls abducted from Chibok, in Borno State.
Reacting to recent comments that President Buhari has broken his promises to rescue the abducted girls and that the government had been “lackadaisical” in the rescue mission, the Presidency told the members of the group not to relent in their support for the government in the war against terrorism and in the ongoing effort to free all Nigerian citizens taken captive by the Boko Haram insurgents.
Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement said the administration had in the past one year stepped up the bombardment of Sambisa forest leading to the capture of hundreds of insurgents.
He said thousands of people have been rescued from the stronghold of the terrorist sect.
“Also, records from the Army shows the rescue of no fewer than 15,000 captives, mostly women and children from the terrorists from February to date. In addition, dozens of communities that were previously under the control of the terrorists have been liberated, allowing thousands of previously displaced citizens to return home and resume their normal lives.
“Thousands of these women and children freed from captivity have also been reunited with their families.
“This huge number of rescued women and children may not be prominent names, and their disappearance may not have generated any massive media attention and campaign. However, their liberation is just as important as that of every other missing woman and child, and a testament to the devotion of our military personnel who daily risk life and limb in the effort to bring back every Nigerian citizen kidnapped by Boko Haram terrorists.
“Along with these ongoing efforts to rid our country of terrorists and terrorism, the Nigerian government is focused on the welfare and rehabilitation of rescued Nigerians, many of whom were found in a state of severe malnutrition and illness,” he said.
Shehu reiterated that the president has not broken any promise made nor has he been lackadaisical in the rescue of the girls, insisting that Buhari’s focus has always been to rescue the girls.
According to the Presidential spokesman, the Federal Government’s focus has always been to free the Chibok girls alive and unharmed.
“The President is conscious always about the fact that terrorism in Nigeria is part of a global phenomenon. Since coming to office, his response to it has been firm and well considered.
“President Buhari will never make bogus promises or play to the gallery. It is misleading of anyone to preach that the Chibok girls are within an easy grasp. If the military under the President knew where they are held, they will bring the Chibok girls home today.
“The Presidency is open to renew cooperation with the BBOG group, international bodies, religious groups, social workers, and all others who are assisting in the field to ensure that those who have so far been rescued from Boko Haram captivity are given the support they need to make a full recovery and be reintegrated fully into society.
“Groups such as the BBOG can also lend a helping hand to military families whose losses need to be appreciated and focused upon.
“The life of every single Nigerian matters to this government and the security agencies, under the command of President Buhari, will continue to exert all its powers to ensure that every Nigerian is safe from the brutality of terrorists and terrorism,” he said.