• As contractor gets tough bail terms From Godwin Tsa and James Ojo, Abuja The Abuja division of the Court of Appeal, has adjourned hearing on the appeals lodged by Senate President, Bukola Saraki and former National Security Adviser, Sambo (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki, to October after its vacation period.
Lead counsel to Saraki, Kanu Agabi informed the court he was not ready for the hearing when the case was called yesterday.
Rather, the former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister for Justice suggested that the appeal be shifted to the end of the court’s vacation.
Counsel to the Federal Government, Rotimi Jacobs who was not comfortable with the turn of events said yesterday was the third time Saraki’s lawyer would ask for adjournment.
Jacobs queried why counsel to the senate president unwilling to argue the appeal he filed. He,  however, agreed to an adjournment when the five-man panel led by Justice Abdu Aboki indicated its intention to hear the appeal after the court’s vacation.
The court adjourned the matter to October 6.
Saraki is challenging the jurisdiction of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) to try him on the false asset declaration charges filed against him by the office of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF).
The court also rescheduled hearing on Dasuki’s appeal after his lawyer, Adedayo Adedeji, was allowed to regularise his brief of argument. It struck out the respondent’s brief filed by the AGF on the ground that it was wrongly filed and directed it should be refiled during the court’s vacation.
Meanwhile, Managing Director of Almond Projects Limited, Olugbenga Obadina, who was accused by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) of collecting N2.4 billion from the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) under Col. Dasuki has been granted bail.
Justice Dimgba admitted Obadina to bail in the sum of N500 million which would be forfeited to the Federal Government in the event he absconds.  The defendant must also provide two sureties in the sum of N250 million each and must enter a bail bond with the court.
Meanwhile, the defendant is to be remanded in prison custody pending perfection of his bail conditions.
The matter has been adjourned to September 30 and October 4, 2016.
The sureties can be a private businessman, professional or civil servant of the rank of a director.  Part of the conditions was that the sureties must have landed properties either in Asokoro, Maitama, Apo Legislative quarters, Wuse II area of Abuja,  or Victoria Island, Lagos State.
The sureties are to provide evidence of income tax payment for three years.
Additionally, the defendant must deposit his international passports with the registrar of the court, and must go to the EFCC to comply with Section 15 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, which entails submitting himself for biodata collection, fingerprinting, snapshot and necessary profiling.