Oyo State Governor, Abiola Ajimobi, has requested a letter of apology from schools whose pupils took part in a protest against government’s proposed education initiative.
Chairman, National Parents Teachers Association of Nigeria (NAPTAN), Oyo State chapter, Alhaji Abiodun Jimoh, said this in Ibadan, yesterday, after a meeting with the governor.
According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on June 6, primary and secondary school students went on rampage to protest government’s proposed public/private participatory management of schools.
The pupils had protested following allegations that the state government had sold their schools.
However, the state government dismissed the allegations and said the initiative was participatory which was aimed at boosting the education sector.
Jimoh told newsmen that the association had visited the governor to appeal to him to re-open the schools.
The NAPTAN chairman said the governor expressed his displeasure over the involvement of pupils in the protest.
He said Ajimobi said he would re-open the schools only if the affected institutions submitted letters of apology to government over the unruly behaviour of their pupils.
Jimoh also said the association would wade into the face-off between labour and government.
He said the governor told them he had reached an agreement with labour on the modality for payment of salaries to workers.
Jimoh said the governor also stressed the need for labour to embrace dialogue, saying his government was predisposed to this at anytime. Ogun tasks forestry stakeholders on revenue generation Ogun State Government has charged Divisional Forest Programme Officers (DFPO) to intensify efforts on revenue generation in their respective forest ranges and ensure wood merchants play according to the rules and regulations.
Commissioner for Forestry, Chief Kolawole Lawal gave the charge when he addressed foresters in Sagamu, Iperu, Ago-Iwoye and Owode Egba free area ranges.
Lawal said irrespective of the fact that the ranges were free zones that had not precluded them from generating more revenue.
He advised that they should map out strategies towards the objective of raking revenue into government coffers.
In another development, the commissioner ordered that all sawmills yet to renew operational licences in defiance of government directive on the payment of operational licences should be sealed off immediately.
He, therefore, urged the DFPOs to ensure contractors renewed their property hammers, hackney permit for felling machine and timber lorries in accordance with the rules guiding forest operations in the state.  