From Kemi Yesufu, Abuja the House of Representatives, yesterday, had a rowdy session over a proposed amendment to section 308 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), to allow presiding officers enjoy immunity in office.
Sponsor of the bill and Minority Leader, Leo Ogor said by allowing immunity for the National Assembly leadership, independence of the legislature would be guaranteed.
“The amendment is straight forward, but, it needs some clarifications. The amendment seeks to strengthen the National Assembly; they (leadership) should be protected in the period they are in office.”
Ogor said the proposed immunity was to ensure that the leadership fully concentrates on their duties.
Kicking against the amendment, Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila said the timing was not right.
He insisted that the timing of the bill was wrong, especially, now that Senate President, Bukola Saraki was facing perjury trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal as well as forgery and conspiracy charges at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court in Abuja.
“We must feel the pulse of the people; there is something about timing, timing in any piece of legislation is important.
“There are issues in the Senate and I pray they are resolved,” he said.
Thereafter, a rowdy session ensued in House for about 15 minutes as lawmakers spoke on top of their voices.
While some members called for the speaker to rule on the amendment, others wanted it thrown out altogether.
Arguments in support and against the bill lasted for over 20 minutes.
While some converged around the speaker on the top dais to find a middle ground,  other lawmakers broke into  groups with many making efforts to justify their positions.
Deputy Whip Pally Iriase was largely ignored by lawmakers when he tried, without success, to restore decorum to the chamber.
When calm was finally restored, Dogara said according to the House rules, the bill would be sent to the Special Committee on Constitutional Review.
“The bill can die even at the committee,” he added. …You’re selfish, greedy, Nigerians tell senators, Reps By Willy Eya and Charles Adegbite As members of the House of Representatives were divided over immunity for the Senate President, his deputy and the Speaker and his deputy, Nigerians view the proposal as greedy and selfish.
Former presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Tafawa Balewa, son of Nigeria’s Prime Minister in the First Republic, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa said lawmakers should drop the idea altogether.  “This should be stopped. I think this is one of the things that can be discussed at a National Conference. Going to the National Assembly should be for service. This is not about somebody giving you a job to do; it is about service. If you are not satisfied, you can resign. In a country where salaries of workers are not paid for five months, they are asking for pension and immunity?”
Former minister for Information, Chief Tony Momoh said “law makers are ignorant of immunity clause. Immunity for National Assembly officers is unnecessary; and immunity is not total or absolute. So many people who talk about immunity don’t even understand it. Immunity does not stop you from being investigated and it covers only the period when you are in office.
“The National Assembly already has immunity, but, it cannot be like that of the president, his deputy, governors and their deputies. They have immunity when they are in the chambers of the National Assembly,” he explained.
Senior Advocate of Nigeria and rights activist, Mr. Femi Falana believes federal lawmakers are behaving as if they have immunity already.
“The National Assembly are already behaving as if they are protected by constitutional immunity. Hence, Senate summoned the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) chairman and the Attorney General of the Federation  (AGF) over trial of the Senate President. The House has even summoned the American ambassador over the rape allegation involving three of their members….” said Falana.
Former Anglican Bishop for Ondo Diocese, Bishop Bolanle Gbonigi described the proposal as “a shame. Our leaders are corrupt and very selfish. This is high level of greed. They are looking for more power, for more acquisition of wealth. Enough is enough. They are robbers. What they are trying to do is daylight robbery. Why are they so greedy?
“Let them follow the example of President Muhammad Buhari who asked that his salary and that of his deputy be reduced. They are there to serve, but, these lawmakers don’t want to serve but to be served until they become lords to be worshipped.”