 By Bolatito Adebayo THE CEO of Brands World, Clara Okoro, is an amiable widely traveled lady of affluence and fulfillment who has carved a niche for herself in advertising. In this interview she shared with us her favorites and how her life has been an exciting adventure. What’s your favorite drink?I think that should be organic drinks. This is because I am always suspi­cious of all drinks with preservatives being peddled in traffic and scared of their sugar content. I take them once in a while but anything natural fascinates me. So, I do a lot of organic drinks. Though sometimes, we buy from shops here, but I know there are still some chemicals in them. If it’s purely natural, I truly love it. Favorite food? I will say plantains and eggs. Favorite literature and author? I like poetry and my favourite authors are Chinua Achebe, Ernest Hemingway and Williams Wordsworth. I also prefer nonfiction stories. I am extremely fascinated by books. Favorite quote? “The world is a comedy to those that think and a tragedy to those that fail.” Favorite designer? I love my works. Favorite car? My favorite car would always be Toyota and I drive one. Toyota is very rugged and that’s why I like it. But in terms of design, I prefer Zedex and Infinity. I really like these designs. Favorite fashion accessory? I love shoes and I must be very comfortable in them otherwise every other part of me will be in trouble. I also love sandals because they are comfortable. My favorite brand is Zara. Favorite hairstyle? I wear wigs mostly, because I just feel tugging at my natural hair always is problematic. So, I like straight bone wigs a lot. Favorite holiday spot? I’m exploring Africa now, but before now, there’s a place in Southern France called Centron Fe. I really felt at home the first time I visited, so anytime I am in France, I normally take a boat to Centron Fe. It’s a fishing village but I love its scenery and serenity. I think it’s the most cozy spot on earth. Favourite leader? It’s the famous late Thomas Sankara. Favourite sports? I am not really into sports but if I have my way, I would be in every For­mula1 driving competition,because I love fast cars and they fascinate me. Favourite television programme? It’s actually a foreign television series called CSI. Favourite perfume? I love Safari by Ralph Lauren and I use it a lot. Favourite makeup? That would be my eyeliner.  