Nigeria is, once again, in the throes of a fuel subsidy imbroglio. The Federal Government, last week, put a stop to the payment of subsidy to fuel importers. These subsidies have been paid over the years  to keep the pump price of petrol at the government-regulated price which,  before the latest develovement, was fixed at N86.50.
Since the announcement of this decision which has been described in many quarters as nothing but the stoppage of the granting of foreign exchange at the official rate to fuel importers, the nation has been living under the threat of protests by labour unions and their angry members.
Today, Wednesday, May 18 was initially fixed as D-day for the commencement of protests by the Comrade Ayuba Wabba-led faction of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) while the Joe Ajaero-led faction opted out of the industrial action, for now.
The Nigerian Industrial Court, however, ruled against the strike yesterday, stressing that it would disrupt the nation’s economy. The court also directed the Attorney General of the Federation to dialogue with the NLC on this contentious matter.
As I write, it is not clear how the fuel subsidy imbroglio will play out, or whether the protests called by labour will go ahead today. One thing that is, however, certain is that the controversial fuel subsidy regime, which has almost brought the economy to its knees with the way it was serially abused by oil marketers and the oil industry authorities, appears to have run its course. It appears we are only hearing the first tunes of its funeral dirges. This is largely because the scheme has done so much to make billionaires of unscrupulous fuel marketers who collect subsidy claims for fuel not imported, and for fuel that they import and sell on the high seas to other African countries, thereby making Nigeria subsidise the cost of fuel in surrounding African countries.
It is this abuse of the subsidy regime that multiplied the initial amount the federal government was paying fuel importers several folds, until it began to gulp about a quarter of the country’s entire national budget under the Goodluck Jonathan administration, before he began the Olympian struggle to put an end to it in 2012.
The protests which followed that attempt threw up the then Speaker of the House of Representatives, now governor of Sokoto State, Hon. Aminu Tambuwal, as a hero who stood on the side of the people, until the plans to dump fuel subsidy, and later to significantly increase fuel prices, were dropped
A lot of water has passed under the bridge since that time in 2012, and here we are again, deeply engrossed in another fuel subsidy crisis. The problem, this time, is that the bid to increase fuel price is coming at a time when Nigerians are facing so many challenges on account of the fall in the price of crude oil in the international market and the subsequent shortage of forex. For our country which depends on importation of almost all its requirements, the shortage of forex is seriously impacting negatively all sectors of the economy. Inflation, at over 13 per cent, has shot through the roof. Poor electricity supply is affecting micro, small, medium and large scale industries while we are yet to overcome the debilitating fuel shortages. Above all, the cost of food has spiraled. The increase in the price of fuel could, therefore, be seen as the last straw that could break the camel’s back.  But then, it appears to be an unavoidable evil, some kind of painful injection that Nigeria needs to get well ,as it will free funds in our national treasury for developmental purposes. But the question is whether that injection should be taken in one full dose or given in small gradual doses, to avoid “adverse drug reaction.”
For too long, the country has battled with terrible roads, poorly equipped hospitals and schools, malfunctioning refineries, non-diversification of our resource base and so many other problems, because of the corruption snake which has the fuel subsidy regime as one of its fangs, that is sucking the life out of our national treasury. Meanwhile, the supposed subsidy on fuel is not even enjoyed in many parts of the country as a litre of the fuel ordinarily sells as high as N200 in some parts of the country, especially outside Abuja and the state capitals.
Here is hoping that the fuel subsidy crisis will be resolved amicably as the country already has too many problems on its hands. We cannot afford a conflagration. Let the court-ordered dialogue between labour and the federal government lead to a solution that will serve the best interest of all Nigerians.
  Re: Buhari and the Biafra question The last paragraph of your write up last Wednesday, May 11, said it all. Buhari should call the restless Biafran youths to a roundtable and find out what the problems and supposed injustices are.
I personally think the Federal Government should urgently convene a townhall or stadium meeting where these youths, most of whom were not born at the time of the civil war, will be addressed. Unless such a townhall meeting is held, they will never appreciate the vagaries and the hell that was Biafra.
Joe Marquis, Lagos, 07032418700
May God bless you for your fearless and beautiful piece on ‘Buhari and the Biafra question’
Kemdi, 08101544277
Is it that President Buhari does not have advisers or does he ignore their advice? He should be mindful and crosscheck his choice of words with his advisers before going public with them.  Please keep up your beautiful write-ups.
Dr. Silba, 08035504512
Your enlightened suggestions in “Buhari and the Biafra Question” are meant for leaders who are abreast with the global trend on the rights of people to ask for separate states of their own without rancour.
Is it Britain or America that has not experienced ceding of states from their original structures? Even China had its own share in that regard. One wonders at a leader of a country, in the 21st century, incarcerating citizens for exercising their right of protest.
Buhari’s reaction to IPOB and MASSOB’s protests leaves a lot to be desired. Was it not Britain that merged Nigeria’s units into one? Does that give the right of domination by any of the units over others.  If it takes the worst to secure freedom from such a callous ploy, so be it.
Lai Ashadele, 07067677806