The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) says it has given meters to electricity consumers who have paid for meters under the Credited Advance Payment for Metering Implementation scheme ( CAPMI) . Its Regional Manager in charge of the FCT, Mrs Hauwa Mohammad, disclosed this in an interview with journalists in Abuja on Wednesday. It would be  recalled that the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) recently issued a directive to electricity distribution companies to meter consumers who had paid for meters since November 2013. “ The company now devise a means of trying to get meters so that it can address all those that have paid. “And I stand to be corrected, we have actually given meters to people that have paid up till January, so what we have, may be, is just February and we are still metering.
“So the CAPMI, we are metering and we are refunding because we are expected to refund and then with 12.5 per cent that is the meter component that we are doing.“ According to her, the provision of the prepaid meters under CAPMI scheme, which is a credit advanced payment platform, is designed to enable customers get refund through credit.
Mohammad also said that AEDC was in the process of embarking on a mass metering project to meter all its customers. She said that the mass metering would reduce the complaints and challenges encountered by electricity consumers on issues that centred on electricity distribution.
She said part of the metering process would involve a house-to- house enumeration of all its customers to get the accurate data of electricity users under its jurisdiction. Mohammad said that although the mass metering project was capital intensive, the company had concluded plans to invest huge amount of fund into the metering project. She said that the various complaints and challenges facing the consumers in accessing electricity were also being addressed by the company. The regional manager also said that transformers were being provided for communities as a way of improving electricity supply in the area. Mohammad advised customers to imbibe the attitude of conserving energy, noting that many consumers had developed the attitude of wasting energy . She said it was important for communities to put in place adequate security measures to ensure safety of electricity installations in their communities . She explained that the provision of adequate security measures would engender unhindered operation of AEDC staff to render more efficient service to the host communities. Mohammad, however, advised the consumers to endeavour to pay up their electricity bills, adding that doing so would help electricity companies invest more in the provision of adequate electricity to the people. (NAN)