• As detained leader seeks N200m damages From Fred Itua, Abuja The Department of State Services (DSS) has released the detained President of National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, after about one month of detention.
This was even as the youth leader, who briefed newsmen yesterday, disclosed that he has instructed his legal team to institute proceedings against the DSS for illegally detaining him for about one month.
He also said through the suit, he is demanding N200 million damages for the breach of his fundamental human rights through the illegal detention and denial of access to his family and medical services.
“I have consulted with my lawyers and they are seeking an order of court for the enforcement of my fundamental rights declaring my month long detention illegal and they are seeking for damages of N200 million against the DSS for the illegal detention and torture.
“The job of security agencies is quite tasking and I commend them for the successes, but, while discharging their responsibilities they should respect the rights of citizens and not be used to harass, intimidate, punish or victimise a citizen because of their views,” he added.
Ugochinyere pointed out that he has forgiven those who contributed directly or indirectly to his incarceration but reiterated that he will not abandon his position to enforce his basic rights.
“I am still committed to my mandate; to carry out the required reforms in the youth council and to the ideals of a free and democratic society.  My focus will now include fight against abuse of rights, unemployment and empowerment of youths.
“I shall continue to fight and I will not disappoint.”
The youth leader noted that the struggle is not about his person, but about the rights of citizens, pointing out that in Kaduna State, a journalist is still in detention for doing his job, just as in other states where citizens are imprisoned merely for expressing their views.
To this end, he said the NYCN is not an appendage of any political party or government agencies, observing that if he, as the NYCN can be arrested and detained like was done despite protests and agitation all over the country, what becomes of those who do not have voices to speak for them.
He, therefore, quoted President Muhammadu Buhari who said “I pledge myself and government to the rule of law, in which none shall be so above the law that they are not subject to its dictates, and none shall so below it that they are not availed its protection,” insisting that all contempt proceedings earlier instituted against persons who disobeyed the court judgement regarding his executive will continue.
He also said more will also commence against any person or persons who further disobey the court of Nigeria, warning that in a democratic society, everybody should learn to respect and obey the rule of law. 2 Borno emirs return home after 2 years By Oladele Oguntimehin Two, of the five Borno emirs forced to flee their domain in Askira Local Government Area to Maiduguri two years ago, by Boko Haram have returned to their palaces.
The insurgents took control of the area in August 2015 and announced the establishments of a Caliphate rule and forced residents, including emirs to flee. The insurgents were, however, mauled down by the military who took total control of the area and restored normalcy recently.
The two emirs, Alhaji Muhammadu Askirama of Askira, and Alhaji Ismaila Mamza of Uba, returned to their respective palaces yesterday in company of Borno Deputy Governor, Alhaji Mamman Durkuwa.
Speaking at their palaces, the emirs commended the military for their gallantry in routing Boko Haram. They expressed optimism that terrorism would end soon in the country, going by the successes being recorded by the military. Durkuwa assured the emirs that the state government would undertake projects to restore life to the area.
The deputy governor also urged residents to be law abiding and report any sign of security threat to relevant agencies.
Three other emirs yet to return to their domain include the Emir of Bama, Alhaji Kyari El-Kanemi, Emir of Dikwa, Muhammad Ibn Masta, and Chief of Gwoza, Alhaji Muhammad Timta. They are still residing in Maiduguri, the state capital.