From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja THE All Progressives Con­gress (APC) has reacted to the 2019 postulations of the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, urging him to concentrate in curtail­ing the spate of mass kill­ings and violence perpetu­ated under his watch and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. Wike had stated that the PDP is currently ‘reorgan­ised’ to take over the ‘seat of power’ in 2019. However in a press state­ment signed by the Nation­al Secretary of the ruling party, Mai Mala Buni, APC cautioned security agen­cies and Nigerians not to be hoodwinked, alleging that it was his latest ploy to deflect attention from the continued and increased spate of mass killings and violence under his watch. “The spate of killings in Rivers State has now as­sumed genocide dimen­sions with horrendous killing and maiming of residents and security per­sonnel almost on a daily basis. On Monday, five mo­bile policemen, including a Deputy Superintendent of Police, Mr. Nasiru Halidu were ambushed and killed at Okobe in Ahoada West Local Government Area of the state. “On Tuesday, five per­sons were killed and scores injured in attacks in differ­ent parts of the state. The state High Court premises in Port Harcourt, the Riv­ers State capital also came under attack. Clearly, Riv­ers State has been trans­formed into a killing field under the watch of the Riv­ers governor. “The APC calls on the police and other security agencies to, as a matter of urgency, rise to stop the breakdown of law and or­der which has resulted in mass killings and other forms of violence in Rivers State,” the party noted. Meanwhile, the ruling party further noted in­stead of joining issues with Wike’s idle 2019 postula­tions; the APC-led admin­istration would rather con­centrate on ongoing efforts to deliver all-inclusive de­velopment in the country. “Commendably, the ad­ministration of President Muhammadu Buhari is al­ready working assiduously to repair the rot caused by the PDP’s 16-year misrule and pillage of the country’s commonwealth. Since the APC-led administration took over the governance of the country, the fight against Boko Haram has been invigorated with re­gional and global support and cooperation against the terror group. “The recently assented 2016 National Budget ca­ters for many of the prom­ises made to the Nigerian electorate by the party in the course of the 2015 presidential campaign. This includes the safety net created to cater for the poorest and most vulnera­ble Nigerians among other pro-people developmental policies. “Also, President Buhari’s shuttle diplomacy has been able to restore Nigeria’s integrity among comity of progressive-minded na­tions. The shuttle diplo­macy has also had positive effects on the country’s economic policies and counter-insurgency efforts. “In spite of desper­ate attempts by the PDP and its agents to discredit President Buhari’s anti-corruption efforts, the war against corruption is won and has been well-received and supported. The gen­erality of Nigerians agree that the days of impunity are over. The political will and sincerity of purpose of the present administration to tackle corruption from the roots to the upper ech­elons no matter whose ox is gored remains unwaver­ing. “Happily, Nigerians can look back, with relief and attest that since the APC-led administration took over governance, Nigeria is back on the right track-economically and security-wise,” the party noted. 