Fans of Shooting Stars Sport Club (3SC) of Ibadan were disappointed on Sunday as visiting Plateau United Football Club forced their team to a 2-2 draw in a Week 14 league match. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that the 3SC supporters, who were expecting improved performance from the club after the 0-6 molestation by Kano Pillars in a Week 13 league match, left the stadium unhappy. The home side secured its two goals from Tope Oorelope’s penalty kick and Wasiu Jimoh in the 32nd and 37th minutes respectively, while Joshua Obaje and Ibe Johnson scored for Plateau United FC in the 26th and 73rd minutes. NAN reports that 3SC had secured two penalties within the first 32minutes of the match but scored only through Oorelope, while Wasiu Jimoh lost the first penalty kick taken. Coach Zakari Baraje of Plateau United FC told newsmen that it was a very good game between two wonderful sides. He said that the match was a great home coming for him, saying that securing a point in Ibadan made the encounter more interesting. “We are in a competition and everyone would want to be the best. “ I think it is also the hope of any team to at least be among the first eight teams on the table so as to remove the fear of relegation, ” he said. Baraje admitted that the two penalty kicks awarded in the match were truly committed, adding that his boys were negligent to have created them. Speaking on the performance of 3SC, Baraje said that there was too much pressure on the hosts coupled with lack of funds. He, however, expressed the hope that the club would get it right as soon as possible to be able to sustain its status. An ex-International, Dr Felix Owolabi, also bemoaned the pressure mounted on 3SC players, saying the fans were expecting too much from the team. Owolabi, who urged the fans to be more patient with the team, said: “3SC is a birth right of the Yoruba race. “ This time around, as stakeholders, we will try and resolve all the issues to make up for what is lost. “We will talk to the players, management and the government. I spent 16 years serving this club and I will not allow it to fail in my lifetime,” he said. NAN reports that Coach Kadri Ikhana of 3SC was absent at the game.(NAN)