From Sola Ojo, Kaduna WORRIED by increased cases of criminal activi­ties and diseases’ out­break in Kaduna State, the state governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, over the weekend said the state is working to establish its own De­oxyribose Nucleic Acid (DNA) forensic centre to tackle the issues head­long. When established, the centre will help the state and the country at large to have genetic history of diseases and to track criminal elements in any part of the country. The governor said this while declaring open a 2-day 1st national work­shop for Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) nurses, organised by National Association of Otorhi­nolaryngological Nurse Practitioners of Nigeria (NAORLNP), held at National Warfare Centre, Kaduna. El-Rufai, who stated this through the state Commissioner of Health, Professor Andrew Jona­than Nok, added that its high time the state started looking inward to what caused collapse in the society, hence, the intention of the state government to have the centre. According to him, “we are just interested in try­ing to find out genetic basis not just diseases, but identification of fel­lows, may be that have to do with crime and crimi­nology. And then, we need to go a step farther with regard to finding out diseases because it is not possible to be able to un­derstand the basis of such diseases without genetic details. He further added that, “we have a committee that has really gone far in making extensive context locally and outside. And we have a team of experts drawing the next plan of action to realise this no­ble course.” The guest speaker and immediate past Medical Director of National Ear care Centre, Kaduna, Professor Mohammed Babagana Ahmed, how­ever, advocated addition­al ear care centres across the six geo-pilitical zones in order to bring the healthcare service closer to the people. The pioneer professor of ENT in Northern Ni­geria further suggested that even if it means do­ing it bit-by-bit, the coun­try needs more of such centres due to rapid in­crease in its population, citing instances where patients have to be re­ferred from Ibadan, Enu­gu, Benin among others. Earlier in an address, National President of NAORLNP, Mr. Murtala Aliyu Sakwa, appealed to members of the asso­ciation to work in unity so they can achieve out­standing success collec­tively.   