…Nigeria should stop disgracing black race -Ezeife, Keyamo From Taiwo Amodu, Magnus Eze, Abuja and Charles Adegbite, Lagos BRITISH Prime Minister, David Cameron’s comment on Tuesday that Nigeria is a fantastically corrupt coun­try has generated mixed reactions from Nigerians. Former deputy of late General Sani Abacha, Gen. Oladipo Diya (retd) yesterday described the comment as “unfortunate, looking at the efforts being made by President Mu­hammadu Buhari. “It is unfortunate that Cameron could make such comment at the time our president was visiting the place to speak against cor­ruption and he (Cameron) knows Buhari’s efforts to fight corruption while he (Cameron) has Panama Paper palaver. It is quite unfortunate.” he said. To the first executive governor of Ekiti State, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, “the series of revelations com­ing out since last year on how some people looted Nigeria’s treasury merci­lessly during the past ad­ministration have shown that a lot of Nigerian lead­ers are corrupt. “But, looking at efforts being made by President Buhari to fight corruption, it is obvious that Camer­on’s comment was not on Buhari’s administration. It was the last administra­tion and all corrupt leaders tarnishing Nigeria’s image abroad.” Adebayo added. Former managing di­rector of Daily Times, Dr Yemi Ogunbiyi also de­scribed the comment as unfortunate, and said “it should not be somebody like Cameron that will be saying such a thing to Ni­geria looking at the report of Panama Papers on his father and him.” On the other hand for­mer governor of Anambra State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife, said Nigeria should stop disgracing the Black race, and added that the level of corruption in the country has not stopped. According to him, “government should stop using corrupt anti-corruption policy to fight corruption. What they are doing is fighting their own opponents who have cases of corruption, leav­ing their own party mem­bers who are corrupt to keep doing it secretly.” he said. Rights activist , Festus Keyamo told Daily Sun that what the British Prime Minister said was just the impression many people across the world had about Nigeria. Former chairman of Transition Monitoring Group, Moshood Erubami said the British Prime Minister, David Cameron should not be vilified, revelations of financial sleaze during the last ad­ministration which was unveiled by Buhari’s ad­ministration exposed the nation to ridicule. “Nigerians confirmed what he said. There is no way you can read the rev­elations about the looting of our Commonwealth that you won’t agree that corruption is endemic here. Even if he didn’t say it, there is no way you can dismiss it that it isn’t en­demic. “It is even better that an outsider said it so that we can learn a lesson. In his remarks,Chief Niyi Akintola, (SAN) de­scribed Cameron’s state­ment as undiplomatic. “ As I speak with you, I am in London– all the British papers carried it. “ As a matter of fact, the Queen was shocked! “ But, I love Buhari’s re­ply. That shows candour and in any case, who are the masterminds of cor­ruption? “It is quite undiplomat­ic of Cameron, although he never knew he was be­ing captured.” To a former member of the House of Representa­tives, Mr. Eseme Eyibo, he considered it atrocious for Cameron to have made such a statement, even when his country is a “no­torious haven for stolen wealth from Nigeria and other developing coun­tries. Eyibo also accused Brit­ish citizens and compa­nies of being big patrons of Nigeria’s oil sleaze.” 