 By Willy Eya GOVERNOR Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has said the only reason he would not run for the 2019 presiden­tial election is because of President Muhammed Buhari. He, however, said he would go back to the trenches after eight years of the Buhari administration. The governor made the remarks at the weekend in an interactive session with newsmen in Owerri, the state capital. He said Buhari has so far shown leadership and should be encouraged by all Nigerians, saying he would not join the race for Aso Rock in the next general elections because of his belief in President Buhari’s ability and com­mitment to lead the nation out of the woods. He said: “The only reason on earth I would not contest the presidency in 2019 is because of President Mu­hammed Buhari. I believe that Presi­dent Buhari was called up at a time like this to clean up the mess in the society. “I have been running for the presi­dency of this great nation until God said I should settle for the Imo gover­norship. And that passion to become the president of the country is not just borne out of the thirst for the position, but had arisen out of the eagerness to offer the nation and her people a strong leadership; the essence would be to build a nation of our collective dreams and aspirations. “President Buhari came in almost one year now and within the one year, Nigeria has once again got the doors of the rest of the world opened for her. He has shown courage, confidence, maturity and strong leadership. There is now high feeling of leadership in the country. “ I am not even judging President Buhari in terms of achievements or general administration, but he is clean­ing up the mess of the past administra­tion and to lay a new foundation upon which subsequent administrations of Nigeria would depend upon. “Anybody judging Buhari from the other side is not being fair to him. That is why I am supporting him and that is why I am with him. After President Buhari, I would be back to the trench­es. When I will run for the president, I will not run for it as an Igbo man, but as a Nigerian. I am one Nigerian that is accepted all over this country and I am proud to say so. I am an Igbo man but I was born in the North and my em­powerment and wealth came from the West. I cannot afford to be a tribalist. No, I am a complete detribalised man. “I believe in one enclave called Ni­geria and that is my mindset. We must bend down and lay a solid foundation for Nigeria once and for all without sentiments,” he said.