 From Godwin Tsa, Abuja Micheal Wetkas, a detective of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and prosecution witness in the trial of the Senate president, Dr. Bukola Saraki at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) yesterday testified that there were no documents linking Saraki to properties in Maitama district, Abuja. The witness who was cross-examined by Saraki’s counsel, Mr. Paul Usoro read a letter from Abuja Metropolitan Management Agency which informed the EFCC that the property was transferred to Carlisle Properties and Investment Limited using a power of attorney. The property are located at Plot 2481 Cadastral Zone and 2482 Cadastral Zone, Abuja. Wetkas confirmed that the power of attorney was made in 1992, 10 years before Saraki became governor of Kwara State. He said the power of attorney was issued between one David Baba Akawo and Allied Properties Ltd, and Saraki’s personal name never appeared in any of the document relating to the transactions on the Abuja property. When told that Carlisle Investments and Property Company Limited were different from the defendant as a person, the witness said, “even though the documentation is in the name of Carlisle Properties and investment Limited, we believe that the property belong to the defendant because the company belongs to him.” Speaking on the ownership of Carlisle Investment Company Limited, whose certificate of incorporation was tendered before the Tribunal, the witness said Saraki’s name was never mentioned in the ownership of the firm. The witness said the name on the certification of incoperation were Oluwatoyin Ojora and Barbs Trading and Manufacturing Limited, adding that the two owners were allotted ten thousand share each. In the certificate of incorporation of Carlisle Nigeria Limited obtained at the Corporate Affairs Commissions (CAC) by the EFCC, Wetkas who was asked to read out the name of the defendant on the document simply told the Tribunal that he could not find the name of Saraki on the certificate.