Commemorating the Children’s Day celebration, Emirates airline is set to roll out a raft of fun activities for children at the Ikeja City Mall. Slated to take place on May 27th and 28th from 12 Noon till 7pm on both days, the City Mall will be graced with an Emirates stand designed for children. Children can enjoy a host of exciting activities such as face painting with animal faces and Emirates activity books, coloring pencils and drawing pages.  Kids can capture great memories while they get their picture clicked with Emirates Fly With Me Animals and dressed up as pilots and cabin crew. There are also lots of toys as giveaways To inspire young travellers, Emirates offers a set of toys that serves as a companion for kids on board their flights. The toys come in three product lines, Travel Buddy – a cuddly toy with a plastic toggle allowing it to be hung in the car, on a pram or in the cot, Carry Buddy – dual purpose toy and blanket and Magnetic sketchers – unique characters to keep kids entertained, with drawing and easy erasing functionality. Emirates has teamed up with the travel experts at Lonely Planet Kids to create packs that inspire older children to explore more of the world. The Fly with Me Lonely Planet Kids products come in four variations – two specially designed retro-style rucksacks, and two cool bags. These include fold-out world maps, travel journals, plastic drink bottles, cards with world facts and various educational books exclusive to Emirates. There is also the Fly With Me Animals magazine produced exclusively for Emirates’ young flyers aged 3-8 years old. Each magazine includes a colouring set which features Emirates Little Travellers characters — iconic Emirates cabin crew and pilot characters exploring the world. Emirates’ Young flyers gets special attention on Emirates flights with special kids meals that appeal to Emirates’ multi-national passengers, allowing children to enjoy both variety and their favourite dishes. They can also explore over 90 kids channels including the very best movies and television from Disney, Cartoon Network, CBeebies and Nickelodeon channels and goodies to inspire the greatest of imaginations. They also get to wear fun and colourful new headsets with larger speakers for a more comfortable fit and much improved sound quality. Other special services for children and infants include Priority boarding for families with small children, special fares for children aged two to 11, 10kg free baggage allowance for infants not occupying a seat, special brightly-coloured child-sized headsets for a snug fit, Baby kits, bassinets, nappies and baby change tables and special ‘stroller’ delivery service for parents with babies in Dubai, provided immediately after disembarking. Emirates inspire travellers around the world with our growing network of destinations, industry leading in-flight entertainment, regionally inspired cuisine and world-class service.  