…Says PDP’ll emerge stronger From Chris Anucha, Port  Harcourt
Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Wike, said he has lost confidence in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
The governor said this in a television interview monitored in Port  Harcourt  yesterday.
“I don’t have confidence in the present  INEC. It is too inconsistent and acts outside the  law. We are encouraging every candidate  to contest elections and emerge through popular  votes. We  will  not allow  impunity  or imposition,” he  said.
Governor  Wike  also  expressed surprise that INEC could set up  a committee to review already cancelled rerun elections in the state, which, he said, could lead to avoidable  crisis. Wike reiterated that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would defeat All progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State.
“From what we have seen on ground in Edo State, this is the best time to capture the state. We have  sent independent assessors to the state and they have adjudged that the PDP has the opportunity  to  take over Edo,” he said.
He said PDP has emerged stronger from the recent challenges facing it adding,   “all leaders of  the  party  are working to keep the party united.”
He said the National Convention of the party would  hold on May 21 as scheduled, as a shift would be dangerous.
On the alleged court order, stopping the national convention, Governor Wike said as the chairman of the National Convention Planning Committee, he had not been served such order.
He said: “There is no valid court order stopping the PDP National Convention. The suit at the Federal High Court, Lagos was filed by an impersonator. As a chairman of the National Convention Planning Committee, I have not been served any court order. How can there be an order, when I did not go to court?
“At the point we are now, we want everybody to be together, to form a united opposition in the  interest of the nation. When a presidential candidate emerges from the North in 2018, the chairman of the party  will come from the South,” he added.