Popular filmmaker and actor, Kunle Afolayan, is on the verge of making history. He is about setting a pace in the world of movie making. With his latest flick, The CEO, the producer is set to achieve a feat that has never been achieved even in Hollywood or Bollywood!
Speaking at the press screening of The CEO held at the Silverbird Cinema, City Mall, Ikeja, Lagos on Wednesday, Afolayan revealed plans to have a grand premiere of his movie aboard Air France en-route Paris, France on June 1, 2016.
The CEO, which has a pan-African marketing prospect, having pooled its cast from countries such as Nigeria, South Africa, Kenya, Benin Republic, Ivory Coast and Morocco among others, will headline the prestigious NollywoodWeek Paris, a film festival organised by the France-based association, Okada Media, headed by Serge Noukoué and Nadira Shakur.
Afolayan said: “Come June 1, 2016, we shall be having the first-of-its-kind premiere of The CEO aboard Air France to Paris, France. This special premiere will begin with a Red Carpet show at the check-in-counter at Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. There shall be the best of media coverage from partners such as Africa Magic, Silverbird Television and other broadcast and print media that have given us tremendous support in the past.
“For our sponsors, partners, and the cast and crew of The CEO and those accredited to attend NollywoodWeek Paris, the fun continues with a cocktail party at the Boarding Gate. We will run a red carpet into the plane. Thereafter, the movie will be screened onboard the plane where other passengers will partake in the show. It is going to be a complete event with the usual razzmatazz. Just imagine an After Party happening 35,000ft to 40,000ft above the sea level. It is sure going to be a unique experience. It is also good to know that our fans will be waiting for us in Paris where the film has been slated for a special premiere at the NollywoodWeek Paris, taking place from May 2 to 5 at the popular Cinema l’Arlequin.”
Corroborating Afolayan on the unique premiere, Commercial Manager, Air France/KLM, Arthur Dieffenthaler noted that there has never been an in-flight premiere of such, even in Hollywood or Bollywood. According to him, the initiative represents some of the big ideas that Air France/KLM and Afolayan’s Golden Effects Company stand for.
While expressing optimism that the partnership will go a long way, Dieffenthaler disclosed that it is the first time a Nigerian film will be shot at the Charles De Gaulle Airport, Paris, France.
Dignitaries expected to grace the in-flight premiere of the film include Minister of Culture and Tourism, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode, Commercial Manager, Air France/KLM, Arthur Dieffenthaler and Acting Managing Director, Bank of Industry, Mr. Waheed Olagunju.
Others are officials of DStv, Peugeot Automobile, Adron Homes and Properties, Inagbe Grand Resorts and Leisure as well as several notable filmmakers and actors in Nollywood. The cast of The CEO who will also join the flight in Lagos include Grammy Award winner, Angélique Kidjo; Haitan actor and model, Jimmy Jean-Louis; consummate actor, Wale Ojo; French-Ivorian actress and model, Aurelie Eliam; South African actor and presenter, Nicolaos Panagiotopoulos; Nollywood actress, Kemi Lala Akindoju; Moroccan star, Fatim Layachi; Kenyan actor, Peter King, Nollywood actress, Hilda Dokubo, music act, Adekunle Gold and Moroccan Afrobian artiste, Ahmed Soultan, who made cameo appearances in the film.
Distributed in Nigeria by Silverbird Film Distribution Ltd., The CEO will premiere in Lagos on July 10, 2016. Cinema release will follow on July 15, 2016. However, there will be private screenings for corporate organisations that desire some refresher for their staff.