From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari and former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu have congratulated Soun of Ogbomosoland, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi, Ajagungbade III, as he turns 90 years old today.
First to congratulate him was President Buhari.In a letter to the monarch felicitating with him on his birthday, Buhari said he joined the Oyo State Government, Oyo State Council of Obas and chiefs, Ogbomoso kingdom and his family in celebrating the long life and remarkable achievements of the revered monarch, who has spent 42 years on the throne.
He commended Oba Ajagungbade for his success in business and ascension to the throne.
The president affirmed that the two national honours to the Soun of Ogbomosoland, Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON) and Commander of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (CFR), were most deserved, going by his humility, courage and contributions to national development.
On his part, Dr. Kalu also congratulated Oba Oyewumi on his birthday.
Kalu said the milestone called for celebration because the royal father’s exemplary life is worthy of emulation.
“Beyond the trappings of royalty, Oba Oyewumi, a symbol of all that is quintessential, has, through his immeasurable philanthropy, touched many lives and continues to make a difference, not just in his Ogbomoso community but the entirety of Nigeria. The traditional icon’s love for humanity knows no bounds. It is my wish that God should grant Oba Oyewumi many more fruitful years in good health, graceful longer life and borderless service to mankind, I have no doubt in my mind that the Almighty, who has kept this nonagenarian till date, will continue to prosper and preserve him beyond his imagination,” Kalu said.
In a statement by his Media Adviser, Ebere Wabara, the former governor, who is the Aro of Ogbomosoland, said despite Oba Oyewumi’s opulence from decades of multi-sectoral entrepreneurship, his humility remains unequalled in a society reputed for flaunting of wealth, selfishness and unbridled haughtiness by the nouveaux riches.
Oba Oyewumi’s  children and grandchildren are in many federal institutions, copious blue-chip establishments and top-notch private organisations at home and abroad, will be 90 years old today.
Kalu and his entourage are already in Ogbomoso to felicitate with the monarch and members of his family.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 