From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Imo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is now in disarray following the rejection of the results of the ward congress by party members across the 27 council areas of the state. Congress election was a continuation of the struggle for the control of the party structure between Senator Hope Uzodinma and the former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Emeka Ihedioha. This was even as members of the party have accused the chief returning officer for the Ward Congress, Chief Sargent Awuse as responsible for the crisis when he claimed that he had instructions from Abuja to recognise only seven leaders in the state, namely  former governors Ikedi Ohakim, Chief Achike Udenwa, Emeka Ihedioha, senators Samdady Anyanwu, Hope Uzodinma, Dr. Kema Chikwe and Senator  Athan Achonu. At Imeriewen ward  in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the state, there was fracas between members of the party who opposed the Option A4 proposed for the election in the area. Daily Sun reliably gathered that several people were wounded in the fracas allegedly ignited by a former council chairman, Chief Emma Nworgu, who is representing the state in the National Population Commission and  a loyalist of the former  deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Emeka Ihedioha. He had allegedly ordered his thugs to disrupt the election process after noticing the election was not going his way. At Owerri, the state capital, supremacy battle between frontline politicians was said to be the order of the day, allegations of duplication of delegate lists and use of thugs by interested candidates was said to have scuttled the elections. The delegate lists from Orlu zone was allegedly torn to shreds by Senator Hope Uzodinma, who had reportedly stated that he alone should determine who holds whatever position as the leader of the zone. In Okigwe zone where former governor of the state, Chief Ikedi Ohakim and Senator Athan Achonu were the recognised leaders, there was confusion, as to the authentic list of delegates as three lists were in circulation. It was the same situation in Ohaji/ Egbema Local Government as the former speaker of the House of Assembly, Goodluck Nana Opia, who currently represents Ohaji/ Egbema/ Oguta/ Oru East,   allegedly hijacked the delegate list. According to one of the party members from Ohaji/Egbema, Local Government Area, Mr Damian Opara, who recounted his ordeal during the election said his clothes were torn to shreds by Opia for questioning his invasion of the election area with thugs. Opara further claimed that the lawmaker personally assaulted him before ordering his thugs to beat him up. His words: “ He tore my clothes and pushed me down, he slapped me several times and ordered his boys to deal with me.” However, he stated that no election took place in Ohaji/Egbema, sighting fights among members of the party and hijack of materials for the election. As at the time of  filing this report no result has been announced, as hundreds of party members besieged a popular hotel close to the Government House where the results were still being compiled. 