• Tompolo condemns military siege to Gbaramatu From Paul Osuyi, Asaba and Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Against the backdrop of renewed hostilities in the Niger Delta, Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide has warned that Nigerians should expect more cases of insurgency in the region if President Muhammadu Buhari does not probe unfair allocation of oil blocs in the country.
IYC President, Udengs Eradiri, who gave the warning at a press conference held at the Ijaw House in Yenagoa, as part of activities to celebrate this year’s Isaac Boro Day, said anti-Niger Delta policies by the Federal Government is fuelling insurgency in the region.
Eradiri said indiscriminate sharing of oil blocs were allegedly carried out when Buhari served as petroleum minister or head of state.
He accused the president of denying Niger Deltans ownership of oil blocs at the time while allegedly allocating the same to his kinsmen and their cronies like a bazaar.
“One of the most salient issues which if not addressed will lead to more crisis is the issue of the oil blocs.
“Oil blocs were shared to one group. Look at it, either the person (owner of oil bloc) was a former military president or relative of the military president or an in-law to a military president.”
Eradiri called for a total review of the oil blocs. “That is one of the biggest issues that, if not addressed, there will be more Niger Delta Avengers, you will see groups and groups that will spring up until the issue is addressed,” he said.
Meanwhile, former militant leader, Government Ekpemupolo (also known as Tompolo) has condemned the continuous heavy presence of the Nigerian military in Gbaramatu Kingdom in search of members of the new militant group, Niger Delta Avengers (NDA). He said the development was unfortunate.
Members of the NDA had claimed responsibility for the recent attacks on oil and gas facilities in what appeared to be a renewed wave of hostilities in the Niger Delta. They are believed to be taking refuge in the creeks of Gbaramatu Kingdom.
But, in his reaction, Tompolo said the continued presence of the military in Gbaramatu Kingdom will not guarantee the desired peace for continuous oil exploration. He implored the Federal Government to tread cautiously and launch a thorough investigation into the issue, rather than resorting to military approach.
In a statement, Tompolo, again, dissociated himself from the militant group and wondered why the military was after him when his lawyers were challenging the charge preferred against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
“It baffles me that the Nigerian military has refused to believe me that I am not part of the group and its activities as contained in several media statements. I am obviously a victim of circumstances in this matter because of my case with EFCC. How can I resort to destruction of oil facilities because of those trumped-up charges against me by the EFCC, when my lawyers are already challenging the faulty process of legal service on me?
“If not for the common insinuation that the Nigerian judiciary is on trial, why would my case with the EFCC become the greatest issue in Nigeria today, when there are so many important things to talk about?” he said.
The former militant leader expressed disappointment in the Federal Government and the military for relying on informants allegation that he was behind the NDA.
He said those accusing him of destroying oil facilities were looking for relevance, recognition and pipeline surveillance contracts.
His words: “If anyone doubts what I am saying, such should find out from the group managing director (GMD) and minister of state for petroleum, because Ayiri Emami and his like have been troubling the minister for pipeline surveillance contracts for some time now.
“The minister has even succumbed to the Ayiri Emami gimmick by appointing some of his cronies as special advisers. The funny thing about Ayiri Emami is that he does not even have the capacity and goodwill to protect oil facilities.”