From Femi Folaranmi, Yenegoa Militants yesterday, attacked a military checkpoint at the coastal Foropa community in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, killing three soldiers. The attack has already caused panic in the community as many have fled  for fear of reprisal by the military. According to investigations, troops attached to Joint Force Operation Pulo Shield in line with the directives of the Defence Headquarters are carrying out serial aerial raids and naval attacks on suspected camps of militants in the area. The attack on the military checkpoint is believed to be a reprisal by the militants over the raid by the military. A reliable security source said  the Soldiers, were attacked at about 1.00am on Tuesday by a two-boat load of   armed sea pirates. The militants after the attack reportedly carted away two AK47 riffles, a General Purpose Machine Gun (GPMG) and other ammunition. The source said  the soldiers were caught unaware by the militants. “It was a one sided shooting. But calls were quickly made to the military base in Ogbinbiri and they came to evacuate the bodies of the slain soldiers.” According to the source, there had been deliberately planned attacks on armed security agents and formations in the region by suspected militants, “These militants attack security agents, ostensibly to steal their arms and ammunition. Criminally-minded youths are stockpiling arms again. This calls for vigilance among security operatives”. The Coordinator of the Joint Media Centre of the OPS, Col. Isa Ado, who confirmed the incident described the assailants as “suspected pirates and renegade militants. “Our men were attacked at their location at about 1.00hours on Tuesday by suspected sea- pirates and renegade militants. They engaged our men at their location in Foropah community in gun battle which was very intense situation. Some of  our men sustained injuries, while three were killed. There were also casualties on the attackers’ side, which I can confirm. We have condoned off the area and the security operation is ongoing.” Asked if the Joint Force is overwhelmed with the relentless attack on military formations and oil installations by suspected militants, Ado said the military is on top of the situation. “No, we can’t be overwhelmed. We are on top of the situation. We are going to defeat them like we did to Boko Haram terrorists. We shall continue to operate within our guideline of operation to halt this hoodlums operation in the creeks very soon. Let’s the public and oil companies be rest assured. The leadership of the Community led by the Chairman of the Foropa Council of Chiefs, Chief Walson Nyemo Eribini, and the Chairman of the Community Development Committee, Pastor Timi Ode condemned the killing of the three soldiers and called on the Federal Government to ensure the killers are brought to justice. Pastor Ode, who spoke in an interview, confirmed that the incident has led to the complete fear in the community, “The report we heard over the killing of the soldier was sad. We condemned it in strongest  terms. And we have sent a Save-Our-Soul letter to the State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson and the Commander of the OPS to ensure that our community and the people are safe.”