Solomon Dalung, the Minister of Youths and Sports, on Friday said the Federal Government would soon set up a new initiative to offer children a wide range of sports opportunities. Dalung said in Abuja that the initiative tagged “Playground to Podium Framework’’ would be for young talented able and disabled people in Nigeria. The minister spoke at the unveiling, commissioning and presentation of sports equipment to 2,000 public primary schools nationwide. “The sporting journey for many Olympians and paralympians begins at school, and it is a crucial time for young athletes’ development. “It is for this compelling reason that government will set up this initiative, especially as it is one of this administration’s priorities to get all children to participate in sports,’’ he said. Dalung added that government has a clear vision to transform sports in the country and the current exercise of equipping primary schools was meant to revamp active participation in sports. “Not only that, the exercise is meant to promote inter-schools competitions and inspire the rebirth of our country’s dominance in sports at all levels continentally and globally.’’ He added that the presentation of the equipment, which was funded entirely from the national lottery proceeds, underscored the commitment, determination and promise of President Buhari’s administration to re-enginner sports. “Let me recall that this administration had promised to change the fortunes of our youths in sports by nurturing them into world-class sportsmen and women.” The minister then appealed to Nigerians to use the opportunity of sports equipment presentation to schools as a constant reminder of Nigeria’s quest for glory at the forthcoming Rio 2016 Olympics. “We must appreciate and fully utilise the imperatives of nurturing and supporting our talented pupils to excel as future Olympic champions.’’ He also urged Head Teachers of beneficiary-schools to take full ownership and control of the equipment and put them to good use for the progress of sports in the country. While congratulating the National Lottery Trust Fund (NLTF) for the gesture, Dalung praised the Fund for the wide-ranging technical collaborations and consultations which preceded its intervention. “I am pleased to note that the Sports Ministry did work actively with the NLTF to assist in the identification of the various types of sports suitable for the primary schools. “This collaboration has helped in the good designs for the equipment, their manufacture and eventual supply to the country. “This approach of implementing government programmes is a good practice which should be commended and applauded,’’ he said. NAN reports that the presentation was the first of its kind since the inception of NLTF in 2005.(NAN) 