From Chidi Nnadi, Enugu Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, yesterday, said strict adherence to the rule of law was the only sure way of preventing tyranny and oppression in the country. Ekweremadu said this at a public lecture he delivered in honour of the late Prof. George O. S. Amadi titled: “Strengthening the foundations of rule of law in Nigeria.” The lecture, which was organised by the Faculty of Law, University of Nigeria, Nsukka and Prof. G. O. S Amadi Foundation, was held at the Moot Court Complex, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus, where Amadi held sway before he died as a lecturer, with many members of the judiciary from Anambra and Enugu states in attendance. Ekweremadu stressed that rule of law was indispensable in any society that craves for justice, equity, and fairness, pointing out that, in Nigeria, the foundation was the 1999 Constitution. Ekweremadu, who is also an alumnus of UNN and a former lecturer at the Faculty of Law, suggested that, to make the foundation strong, Nigerians have to put hands on deck. “Those who think that strengthening the rule of law is not their business are only playing the dangerous game of the cockerel that refused to attend a meeting of the animal kingdom, claiming it was not his business. “But, sadly for him, it was agreed at the meeting that his lineage would be used as sacrifice to the gods. “The cock and his kindred are yet to recover from that I-don’t-care attitude. “We must all be ready and willing to live by the spirit and letters of our laws. “Much of our problems are not about the laws themselves, but about our disrespect for them. “Indeed, a major difference between us and the developed world is that while we choose which rules, laws, or court judgments to obey or not to obey, they command obedience to their laws through strict enforcement that does not respect persons. We need to imbibe that attitude and culture in order to strengthen the foundations of the rule of law in Nigeria”. He also called on leaders, at all levels, to lead by example, insisting that it was one sure way to entrench the rule of law in the country. “On leading by example, the words of Justice Louis D. Brandeis in Olmstead v. United States are instructive. In his dissenting opinion, he states: ‘Our government is the potent, the omnipresent teacher. For good or for ill, it teaches the whole people by its example. Crime is contagious. If the government becomes a lawbreaker, it breeds contempt for law; it invites every man to become a law unto him; it invites anarchy’”. “It is very clear, therefore, that impunity and lawlessness are contagious. If those at the helms of leadership have no respect for the rule of law, their subordinates are not likely to respect the rule of law also. If they, by any means, show that the law is meant to catch their opponents and perceived enemies alone, they have unwittingly licensed their purported friends to scorn the rules and break the laws. And, certainly, as a leader, you cannot choose which law or court verdict to obey or which to disobey,” he declared. Earlier in his opening remarks, chairman on the occasion and Chief Judge of Anambra, Justice Peter Umeadi, described Senator Ekweremadu as an icon and worthy alumnus of the UNN. He agreed that there was need for strict adherence to the process of arraignment, saying there was nothing like “holden charge” under the Nigerian legal system. “The process of arraignment is a strict part of the law. If you don’t observe it, then everything you have done would have been rendered null and void,” he said. 