The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, on Friday reminded foreign service officers of their roles in positively repositioning Nigeria’s image among other countries of the world. Onyeama, who gave the advice during his first official visit to the Nigerian Foreign Service Academy, Badagry, enjioned foreign service officers to be active in President Muhammadu Buhari’s change agenda. “As foreign service officers, we look up to you to join Mr President in bringing about the change that we want in this country. “We need to know that our foreign policy is dynamic. So, as foreign service officers, we should be instruments that this country will depend on in helping and developing our foreign policy. “Let me say that the image of this country so much depends on us all. You should go to other countries and give good representation of Nigeria,’’ he said. According to him, foreign affairs is very critical to the achievement of the current administration’s priority areas. The Minister said that the current administration was committed to promoting Foreign Direct Investment, diversification from oil, as well as promoting export. Onyeama, who commended the commitment of the Academy’s Director, Mr Benedict Adejinle, in moving the organisation to international recognition, said that his ministry would try to address the organisation’s current challenges. The Academy’s Director, Mr Benedict Adejinle, before taking the minister on a guided tour of some facilities in the organisation, commended the interest of the minister in its development. Adejinle said that the some stimulation exercises, including conference diplomacy, media diplomacy and other programmes, would soon be introduced into the academy’s curriculum. He said that in spite of the academy’s current challenges, it has continued to fulfil its mandate of training foreign service officers for Nigeria and other countries. According to him, countries like Namibia, Kenya, Switzerland, Argentina and others have continued to show interest in the academy. Adejinle also drew the minister’s attention to the encroachment on the ministry’s land at Ibiye, Badagry, by suspected land grabbers and speculators. The president of the academy’s Students’ Executive Council, Mr Olufemi Olafeso, pleaded with the minister for the upgrading of infrastructure in the academy ,as well as increase the students monthly stipend. (NAN) 