From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja THE All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates for the forthcoming election have vowed to deploy all machinery to stop Governor Adams Oshiomhole’s scheme to allegedly impose Godwin Obaseki on them as the party’s flag bearer.
Blessing Agbomhere, one of the candidates who spoke to journalists in Abuja on behalf of others, insisted that the governor has reneged on his one man, one vote and godfatherism mantra, alleging that he discredited the Fact Finding Panel set up by the national leadership of the party to impose his candidate on them.
Agbomhere who further maintained that the governor must apologise to the national leadership of the party or face expulsion, equally alleged that Obaseki, Oshiomhole’s business partner is not qualified to contest because he is not a bonafide member of the party.
Announcing boldly that he speaks on behalf of other candidates, he said: “The governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, must apologise to the national leadership and members of the APC or be expelled from the party. His utterances that there is no problem with APC in Edo, that the national leadership of the party has not solved their problems at the national level and that they are shedding crocodile tears for Edo State is tantamount to blackmail.
“His actions amounted to attempt to rubbish the Fact Finding panel set up by the National Secretariat of the APC to resolve the rancour sponsored by the governor himself without respect to the Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola-led panel.
“His utterances are meant to tarnish the image of the national secretariat of APC and blackmail them to abandon Edo APC to his dictates and desperation to impose one Godwin Obaseki who is his close ally and business partner on the Edo people.
“If Oshiomhole is truly a member of the APC who believes in the party’s constitution, he should have known that his godson, Obaseki, is not qualified to be governor of Edo State, as the godson has never voted for the APC in any election in Edo State and he has never supported the party or its candidates or members or any APC’s programme. “If Adams is a member of the APC, he must know that loyalty to the party must be appreciated. He cannot blackmail out of the party loyal members who have contributed sacrificially to the development and victory of the party because he wants to impose his business partner on the party. APC: Endorsement plot worry party leaders Stories by Tony Osauzo Alleged plan by some members and leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to get delegates to endorse an aspirant ahead of the party’s primary in June, is causing disquiet in the party.
It was gathered that a form was being distributed to delegates requesting them to sign after giving them the sum of N10, 000.
Some APC leaders who expressed worry over the development, confirmed it was a snare for the delegates to endorse an aspirant. They warned that such a divisive method does not augur ‎well for APC’s cohesion and advised all delegates to wait for the party’s primary to cast their votes for any aspirant of their choice.
It would be recalled that delegates of APC in Estako Federal Constituency had disagreed with their party leaders over the purported endorsement plan.
The Federal Constituency is made up of three local government of Estako West, Estako Central and Estako East.
The purported endorsement which was to be done at a meeting conveyed by Hon. Philip Shaibu to brief his constituent how he has performed in the last year was almost hijacked by the Chairman of Estako West APC Chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Akokhia. Not comfortable with Akokhia’s move, delegates from the other two local governments raised objection with a shouting match that nearly brought the hall down.
Some of the delegates who spoke on condition of anonymity said the text messages sent to them didn’t indicate endorsement of any particular aspirant, rather they were invited by Philip Shaibu for briefing.
It took the convener of the meeting, Philip Shaibu almost 30 minutes to calm down the delegates, appealing to them that he called the meeting to brief them on  how far he had fared in his legislative business at the lower chambers of the National Assembly and not for endorsement of any candidate. It’s Esan’s turn to produce governor THE agitation of the Esan people to produce the next governor of Edo State is getting louder, with a group, Ikolo Esan Organization from Edo Central Senatorial Zone  saying that in the interest of equity and fairness, it was now the turn of Esan land.
Currently, there are five Esan sons from Edo Central Senatorial zone that are governorship aspirants for the election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
They are Prof. Oserhieme Osunbor, Comrade Peter Esele, Ken Imansuangbon, Casley Omo- Irabor and Austine Emuan.
The group in a communiqué at the end of its meeting in Benin at the weekend and signed by its chairman, Prof. Gabriel Oteze and four others, urged Esan political leaders to extend their hand of fellowship and remain friendly with all contestants in the impending governorship primaries with a view to explaining the Esan Agenda to them.
It described as shameful the attempt to deny a level playing field for all persons contesting for the ticket of a particular political party by sponsorship of hooligans and street urchins to lock up political offices and deny aspirants any chance to interface with party functionaries.
On the marginalization of Esan people by the Oshiomhole administration, the group urged the people from Edo Central to counter any further attempts to sideline and relegate to the background the second largest ethnic group in the state.
The group noted that the construction of the Teaching Hospital for the Ambrose Alli University Medical School should not be compromised at any cost, adding that the blatant refusal to build a teaching hospital for the College, only for one to be built for the University at Iyamho even before the university was founded, was the height of injustice by Governor Oshiomhole.
It frowned at the flagrant disregard and disorderly behaviour of agents of the state government to embarrass and humiliate Esan people, saying that the Esan man has never been successfully intimidated and will never be intimidated but will be fully mobilized to counter any insinuation and weakness.
They expressed dismay over the appointment of an Edo North person as the Vice- Chancellor of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, while the other two state universities at Iyamho and Ekiadolor were headed by persons from their senatorial zones. Edo APC hails NEC for reconciling Oshiomhole, Odubu
THE All Progressives Congress (APC), Edo State Chapter has commended the Prince Olagunsoye Oyinola-led Peace and Reconciliation Panel sent by the party’s National Executive Committee for successfully reconciling Governor Adams Oshiomhole with his deputy, Dr Pius Odubu at the weekend.
A statement issued by the State Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Godwin Erhahon, also commended the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Executive Committee for its perfect selection of the efficient peace-makers for the panel.
The Committee has Prince Martins Bisong as secretary with APC National Organizing Secretary, Senator Osita Izunaso, Senator Ndoma Egba, Hajiya Fatimah Mohammed and Alhaji Ahmed Abdulahi as members.
The State Chairman of APC, Anselm Ojezua made the commendation after Prince Oyinlola briefed a team of the State Executive on the success of their meeting with Governor Oshiomhole and his deputy. The State Chairman joyfully asserted that with both topmost leaders reunited, peace, unity and cohesion have been restored to the party to the fatal disappointment of the hopeless opposition that was hoping to survive on the fall-outs from a broken APC.
He assured the Committee that the State Executive will ensure that the peaceful reconciliation flows down to the grassroots level and reposition the party for victory in the election with whoever emerges as candidate.
He warned all those spreading provocative rumours between the governor and his deputy as well as within party structures to desist from such evil activities henceforth.
Earlier, the Committee chairman and former Osun State governor, Prince Oyinlola commended the governor and his deputy for their love for the party and Edo State by which they yielded to the appeal and counsel of the committee.
Prince Oyinlola said they were returning to the National Secretariat, Abuja, with success story and urged all party leaders in Edo State to key into the rekindled peace and unity.
He advised all governorship aspirants to desist from campaign of calumny against fellow contestants or any party leader. Disregard faceless Benin chiefs, group tells APC leaders A group, N’Edo gheria, a non socio-political group based in Benin city has condemned a newspaper publication calling for the ban on the state deputy governor, Dr. Pius Odubu and Mr Godwin Obaseki from contesting the All Progressives Congress party primaries
The group said, the statement which is not only mischievous and myopic, stands a chance of causing acrimony within the rank and file of the party.
Signed by the state coordinator, Agene Patrick in Benin, the statement urged the national leadership of the party to disregard the comment by faceless Benin chiefs, adding that in a democracy, issues such as contestation and lobbying are bound to happen.
“We want to view the said statement as not only ridiculous and myopic, but that which should be totally disregarded particularly in the face of the peace and reconciliation efforts of the national body.
“We as concerned body hereby urge the national leadership of the party, led by Chief Odigie Oyegun to continue to act in the manner they have carried on by ensuring that all aspirants and their supporters are given free, fair ground to campaign and seek for votes”, the group said.