By Christopher Oji Kidnappers who stormed Igbonla Model College, Epe and abducted the vice principal, a teacher, and four students of the school have reduced their ransom from N100million to N30 million.
The kidnappers had earlier on Saturday demanded a N100 million ransom, but reduced it to N30m later in the day.
The abductors, believed to be militants last Thursday stormed the assembly ground of the school and abducted the Vice Principal, a teacher and four students.
It was gathered that two of the abducted students later escaped from their captors few minutes after they were picked.
The hoodlums contacted families of the victims few hours later, demanding ransom and warning the victims’ families against involving security agencies.
A family member of one of the victims who spoke on the condition of anonymity told Sunday Sun that “the spokesman of the kidnappers has just spoken with my sister. The male voice said that a ransom of N5 million each has been placed on their heads. Meaning that the six persons must pay N30 million.
“The male voice warned that the money must be paid before next week’s Wednesday. He warned that failure to pay the ransom would result in the killing of one of them saying the family members may not know the unlucky one. When my sister demanded to speak with any of the captives, he fired a shot and my sister heard the cries of people believed to be that of the victims. The man warned her to meet others and pay the ransom as directed and switched off his phone”, he said.
The kidnapping came barely a week after a family of six was killed by suspected gunmen at Ikorodu area.
It was also gathered that the gunmen, numbering about 15 stormed the school premises through Ogbere River in three speed boats.
Some of the kidnappers reportedly pulled down part of the fence of the college while others scaled the fence before bundling their victims away.
Five of the abductors reportedly stayed behind in their speed boats.
Eyewitnesses said two of the gunmen mounted surveillance at the entrance of the school, while eight others headed for the assembly ground where the students were still having their morning prayers.
Among those abducted is Lukman Oyerinde, who is said to be the elder brother of slain Olaitan Oyerinde, a former aide to Governor Adam Oshiomhole.
The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni, who confirmed the report said, that the gunmen arrived the school around 8am.
He said that four persons were abducted  by the gunmen, but that efforts were ongoing to rescue the victims as well as tracking down the suspects.
“Yes, gunmen stormed Lagos State Model College, Igbonla, Epe, and abducted two teachers and two students.
“The suspects escaped through the Ogbere River. We have contacted the Ogun State Police Command, the Marine unit of the force as well as naval personnel who have en-circled the river. Two of the students have since been rescued by our men. We will soon rescue the other victims,” he added. 