By  Jasper Jumbo THE Niger Delta crisis is a hydra-headed monster. From the outset of the discovery of (black gold in commercial quantities) in Oloibiri in 1956, the region has suffered from environmental degradation and untold neglect by the government and the multinational oil companies. Logically, the Niger Delta is supposed to be a model region in Nigeria in terms of socio-economic development, industry, youth empowerment and employment. Unfortunately, the reverse is the case. Ironically, the region is one of the most neglected areas in Nigeria. Oil and gas pollution and years of abandonment of the people have resulted in untold economic hardship and health hazards.
The cries of the people as well as several non-governmental organizations for attention to the area were not only spurned, but were rebuffed with crackdowns and repression from successive administrations in the country with the strong backing of the oil multinationals. It is no longer news that Niger Delta youths generally experience poverty in the midst of plenty, thereby facing many social, political and economic challenges in their immediate environment.“Where do we belong in our common regional wealth?” they seem to be asking. Unfortunately, in their quest to bite a slice of the national cake, they seem to overreact, and took to self-help by bombing, kidnapping and abducting the expatriate and other categories of personnel of the oil majors in exchange for ransom, since successive Nigerian governments failed to give ear to their complaints  regarding improving their living conditions and their environment.
The emerged militant and pressure groups such as the Egbesu Boys, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), the Niger Delta People’s Volunteer Force (NDPVF), the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP), the Biafran Zionist Movement (BZM), the Okoloma Ikpangi, the Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) and recently, the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) have become a thorn in the flesh of the Federal Government. These groups generally appear to have a philosophy that seems to suggest that Nigeria as a country is unworkable. This situation contributes to the nearly everyday cautionary words of “Report any suspicious movements around you to security agents” heard on television broadcasts indicating general damaging of pipelines, oil wells and mutilating of gas installations. Oftentimes, they confront the Nigerian security agents, such as the army, navy, police, and the Department of State Services (DSS), resulting in colossal loss of lives and property. Acts of violence, armed robbery and kidnapping for ramsom, have become ways of seeking redress and alternative empowerment.
The government, unable to bear the embarrassment from the youths of the region and the sharp decline in daily oil production, coupled with the substantial loss of revenue, designed the Amnesty Programme in 2009 to stem the internationally-alarming tide of youth restiveness.
The Amnesty Scheme, which was unveiled on 15th June, 2009 was initially scheduled to run for 600 days. It was ‘predicated on the willingness and readiness of the militants to give up all illegal arms in their possession, completely renounce militancy in all its ramifications unconditionally, and depose to an undertaking to that effect.
Reports from the government indicate that following the relative peace ushered in by the ceasefire as a result of the Amnesty Declaration, the country’s oil output rose to 2.3 million barrels a day from 800,000 barrels per day (in the 2006-2008 period) as a result of the improvement in security in the oil region (Igwe, 2010). An increment of 1.5 million barrels per day indicates 120.45 million dollars of revenue to national coffers every day (Igwe, 2010). Some companies also took the opportunity to repair some of their damaged oil facilities. Without doubt, the Amnesty Programme is expected to improve the human capital development of the country which is presently low. Nigeria’s Human Development Index (HDI) Value (Comprising Home basic dimensions of human development: a long and healthy life, access to knowledge and a decent standard of living) for 2011 stands at 0.459, positioning the country at 156 out of 187 countries and territories (UNIDO, 2011). If well implemented, the Amnesty Programme in Nigeria could serve to negate the ‘resource curse’ theory that resource-rich economies such as Nigeria, Congo, Angola, etc. are more prone to mismanagement, underdevelopment and violence. Examples of UK and Norway, both major oil exporting countries, reveals that resource curse is avoidable with functioning institutions and good governance in place.
The Amnesty Programme’s skills acquisition packages promise a better future for both the local population and the companies, if well managed. Upon the completion of their training in oil-related skills, the companies should ensure that they are recruited and engaged in the industry through the reservation of some employment quota for the local inhabitants, thus making the local people identify with the companies operating in the region. The proposed Amnesty Bill should, amongst other things, authorise the Amnesty Office to compulsorily interface with the Local Contents office and the Human Resources Departments of Nigeria’s Oil and Gas Companies, receive the annual employment projections of the said Companies, with a view to advancing trained and competent hands either for hands-on experience or full employment. Government must also ensure the inclusion of other militant groups that now desire to join the Amnesty programme. Recently, there have been agitations from some of the militants, mostly youth in the region, who failed to avail themselves of the window of opportunity opened to them to accept the Amnesty offers through the first phase and second phase for lack of trust in the sincerity of the government over the programme.
– To be concluded tomorrow. Prof. Jumbo, a pioneer Niger Delta Development campaigner, presented this paper at a Public Forum at the Senate Assembly Complex on October 6