From Iheanacho Nwosu, Abuja Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi has dismissed Justice Nwali Sylvester Ngwuta’s bribery allegation, describing it as a mere fiction.
In a statement by his Media Office, yesterday night, the    minister  described Justice Ngwuta’s allegation as “pure fiction, a dubious diversionary tale concocted to muddle the very serious issues of his arrest and investigation by the DSS.”
The statement added that, “for emphasis, we want to state categorically that Amaechi did not, and has never tried to lobby, induce or make Justice Ngwuta to influence the outcome of any matter before the Supreme Court or any other court.
“Justice Ngwuta’s narrative, as it concerns Amaechi, is simply not true, an unadulterated fallacy designed to deceive and distract from the real issues of DSS investigation of acts of corruption against him. It is, indeed, very sad and most unfortunate that Justice Ngwuta decided to drag the name of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Mahmud Mohammed into his fabricated allegations. Again, we make bold to state that Amaechi did not and has never lobbied, approached or attempted to make the CJN or any other Justice of the apex court to influence the Supreme Court judgment on the Rivers State and Ekiti State governorship Elections Petition Appeal or any other matter before the apex court or any other court.
“Within a space of 48 hours, we have observed a carefully-planned and coordinated political attempt to drag Amaechi into the DSS arrest and investigation of judges. The aim of the plot is two-fold: to smear and politically destroy the image and reputation of Amaechi, and deceitfully, portray him as the person behind the arrest of judges. This is, indeed, most ridiculous and callous.
“We are aware of a well timed, heavily-funded plot to “take out” Amaechi politically and it appears that Justice Ngwuta and Justice Inyang Okoro (of the Supreme Court, who had also made similar made-up allegations against Amaechi), have wittingly or unwittingly been conscripted into this devious politics of ‘destroy Amaechi by all means.’
“Amaechi is not and cannot be behind the arrest and investigation of Justice Ngwuta. He should kindly leave Amaechi alone and face the issues he has with the DSS. Amaechi is talking with his lawyers and will explore lawful channels to seek redress for this gross defamation against his character and person.”