By Olakunle Olafioye The national leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bola Tinubu has hailed the withdrawal of the forgery case against the President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki and other members of the National Assembly, describing it as a welcome development.
Tinubu said bringing progressive change promised by the ruling APC should be the top priority of the ruling party.
In a statement signed by his media aide, Tunde Rahman, the APC national leader expressed his delight at the dismissal of the case adding that the development would afford the National Assembly the opportunity to focus on the important work ahead.
According to him, “to bring the progressive change the APC vowed to the people of this nation will require active and innovative governance. New legislation will be required to help pull the nation out of the economic mire. More importantly, such visionary legislation will be even more needed to permanently reform our national economic architecture so that we may promote the type of diverse, durable economic growth and employment that will ensure a stronger future and better insulate the nation from the fragility inherent in basing the economic welfare of the nation on the global price of a single commodity.
“While those involved may understandably feel a sense of relief or vindication, this is no time for them to celebrate or to believe all is well with the nation simply because all has turned out well for them on this matter.  All is not well. Throughout the nation, the people stagger and groan under the weight of economic hardship. This government and our party must hear and respond to their plea. We must lead the way,” he stated. While urging the concerned lawmakers to rise up to the challenges ahead, Tinubu said history would not look kindly on those involved should they squander the opportunity.
“As never before, Nigerians look to the various arms of government to perform their roles so that the country can walk the path of change and renewal,” the statement read. He urged beneficiaries of the legal outcome to rededicate themselves to fulfilling the progressive tenets of the APC and to honour the promises made to the people with regard to their governance and wellbeing. “Now that you have overcome this legal battle, you must dedicate yourselves to helping Nigeria win the greater war against poverty, despair and failure. No matter our past difference, in this effort we must stand united in purpose and resolve. Nigeria must do more than survive. It must thrive”, he said.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 