By  Fred  Nwaozor THE  heat is really on within and outside the premises of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Owerri, the Imo State capital. This is occasioned by the rowdy protest embarked upon by the workers of the establishment. The rancour wasn’t unconnected with the reinstatement of the hospital’s embattled Medical Director (MD), Dr. Angela Uwakwem. The Minister of Health, Prof. Sunday Adewole, had last week announced her reinstatement. At about the same time last year, the staffers of the FMC, comprising members of the Nigerian Union of Allied Health Professionals (NUAHP), as well as Medical and Health Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MAHWUN), staged a protest accusing Dr. Uwakwem of financial malfeasance and anti-labour policies, and demanded her immediate removal. It’s noteworthy that the workers were also protesting against the government’s intent to run a Public-Private Partnership (PPP). Owing to the alleged high level of indiscipline among the aggrieved staff, the MD was asked to proceed on compulsory annual leave while an ad-hoc committee was set-up to investigate the matter. In addition, an interim administration was appointed to oversee the management of the centre till further notice. Fascinatingly, the committee, having conducted a supposedly thorough investigation, reported that there was no iota of corruption  traceable to the officer, or her office. It was shocking, perhaps interesting, to acknowledge that the allegations from about 2,500 workers were considered reckless and baseless by the panel; a revelation that triggered mixed feelings and counter-reactions from the concerned citizens, particularly the Imolites. Now that Dr. Uwakwem has been recalled following the expiration of her compulsory leave and the workers still insist that they don’t want her again, there must be a way out in order to restore normalcy. I’m of the view that the case ought to be revisited, probably by a different panel. The members of the proposed committee must come from neutral backgrounds. I’m referring to people that can handle the issue dispassionately. Let it not be as if I’m advocating a retrogressive approach. The truth of the matter is that these workers cannot be protesting for nothing, because they are definitely not fools. Majority of the members of the affected organization, is fully involved in the ongoing protest; hence, we can’t just overlook their grievances. Despite the findings of the committee, the workers still believe it didn’t carry out the assignment effectively. We need to fully understand how radical and persistent some unionists could be if they perceive any injustice or intimidation from their supposed leader. In such circumstances, they can go to any length to ensure that justice is done. It is on this note that I call on the concerned authorities to look inwards toward doing the right thing so that peace will reign. It has also been reported that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is currently on the case. According to the report, the matter is scheduled to be heard at Court 2 of the Imo State High Court, Owerri on November 15, 2016. If truly  the case is presently being heard by a law court, it would be advisable for the Interim Management Committee (IMC) to remain in charge until after the adjudication by the court is over. No one is saying that if people are seriously protesting against someone, or an officer, the accused person must have done something wrong. But, considering the fact that the protesters in this case comprise the workers of the affected establishment, there’s an urgent need to deploy a more viable mechanism towards quenching the flame before it becomes a full-blown fire. Besides, we should also note that the crisis in question concerns a very sensitive and delicate sector. No society can survive, let alone thrive, if its health sector is set ablaze. Almost the entire staff at FMC, Owerri are reportedly involved in the protest. About 2,500 persons according to a source. You can’t request for their mass resignation or sack. Of course, we are not unaware that such measure would cause more harm. Neither will the government attempt to suspend all of them. Rather than think of such, it’s advisable to suspend the accused party since it is only one person. And, if these workers continue to serve in the hospital amid the crisis, or with heavy hearts, they can never deliver efficient services as expected of them. Taking cognizance of this, it’s therefore needless to reiterate that only a drastic measure can end the lingering crisis. It’s either the government transfers the embattled MD to another state or the entire aggrieved staff would be transferred, while the suggested investigation by the government proceeds. The former is very simple, whilst the latter is too difficult and its actualization could be far-fetched. An alternative measure, which is disrupting services at the centre till the case is resolved, is not good because people’s lives are at stake. Though the case is already in court, the awaited court verdict wouldn’t serve as an immediate remedy considering how long court proceedings could take in Nigeria. This lingering case is to the detriment of patients. In view of this, there is a compelling need for an urgent resolution. Nwaozor writes from Owerri 