BY GEORGE ALUO, ENUGU Rangers took no chances in their final charge for the Nigeria Professional Football League title as they opened all salvo to wallop visiting El Kanemi 4-0 on the last match day of the season played at the “Cathedral”, Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu on Sunday evening.
They had come into the game with one grip on the shield, being on top the log with 60 points while their closest rival, Rivers United were at 57 points but permutations were on that should anything go wrong for Rangers and should Rivers defeat Akwa United in Uyo, it would be down to checking goals differences, a situation that Rangers didn’t want to be.
More so, the El Kanemi players had sent a threat, as voiced by their top scorer, Mustspha Ibrahim, that they were in Enugu for a revenge, recalling that two seasons ago, they were at the point of victory but it was Rangers that denied them the needed points on the final day.
Given these threats, Rangers went for the sledge hammer which they unleashed furiously on El Kanemi with Chisom Egbuchulam opening scores very early in the game with a well executed spot kick. Osas Okoro made sure to double the lead before the half time mark while Chisom called again in the middle of the second half following an exhibition of beautiful combination with Nwobodo and Okoro.
Chisom returned to the box to finish up a hat trick after substitute, Ifeanyi Egwim was hacked down in the box by goal keeper Yekini Kazeem who was immediately red carded.
The evening in Enugu would represent the most momentous football carnival in the history of African football with a multitude of joyous fans on hand to celebrate the return of Rangers to glory after 32 years. The atmosphere is indescribable with non-stop replays of Mexican waves and returns of the club’s anthem, “Holy Holy Holy, Enugu Rangers, another champion.”
Egwim’s injury however produced a bit of an anti- climax to the celebrations when the ambulance arrived to take him away and news filtered out that the damage to his leg was serious.
Interestingly, the State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, we gathered has ordered that he should be immediately flown abroad for specialists treatment.
Overwhelmed with joy for bringing Rangers back to reckoning, coach Imama Amakapabo said he was optimistic from the beginning of the season that Rangers will finish with the title and they worked hard for it.
For his future with the club, he said “it all depends on what the management wants.”  Ekweremadu felicitates with club The Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, has showered praises on the Rangers International Football Club of Enugu for their gallantry and clinching of the Nigeria Football Professional League, NPLF, title in Enugu on Sunday.
Senator Ekweremadu was at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium to cheer the Flying Antelopes during their last match for the season against the El Kanemi Warriors of Maiduguri, where he noted that Rangers had won something more than a league title for their teeming supporters across the world.
According to Uche Anichukwu, the special adviser on media to the Deputy Senate President, the highly elated Ekweremadu, who was in the company of the Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, said: “I want to congratulate the players, the management of Rangers, and indeed the Government and good people of Enugu State on this emphatic victory and the reclaim of the league title after a 32-year wait full of disappointments.    “Those who know the history of Rangers understand why this great achievement will resonate across the length and breadth of the South East and South South especially, and indeed every part of the nation and the world where you find rangers fans.
“For us, this is more than just a league title. This is a huge revival, morale booster, and comfort. It is one great achievement that refreshes memories and our survival instincts as a people. It is a reminder to all our people that though sorrow may endure for a night, joy surely comes in the morning”.
Senator Ekweremadu who described the Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, as a jinx breaker, commended him for his fatherly support and encouragement, which spurred the team to victory.
He assured that Rangers’ successful defence of the league title and their continental campaign in the coming season would be the collective task of all.
While commending the improvements in the NPFL, the Deputy President of the Senate, however, called for more private sector support and greater commitment by the nation’s football managers to lift the round leather game higher in Nigeria.   Star Lager thrills Enugu fans The league season in Nigeria came to an entertaining end with a prolific final match between Rangers International and El–Kanemi Warriors of Borno at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium in Enugu yesterday.
The end of the football season seem primed to coincide with the end of a long wait for a trophy in the coal city of Enugu where Rangers International call home, scoring four goals against El-Kanemi Warriors. Perhaps, Enugu Rangers can serve as a metaphor for the journey of the NPFL with recent renaissance as the fastest growing league in the continent.
Three goals were scored by Star of the Match, Chisom Egbuchulam including a penalty and Osas Okoro also added a goal to the new champion’s count.
Following the recent partnership between Star and League Management Company, licensor of the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), stakeholders including football fans are witnessing a rejuvenation of the Nigerian league.
Chairman, League Management Company, Shehu Dikko affirmed the partnership with Star has positioned the league for greater success.
“The season has gone a lot better than we envisaged. We had a very competitive league this year, many good teams playing in ways that were appealing to Nigerian football fans. We have seen clubs administering better welfare and it will continue to improve in seasons to come.”
Speaking on the thrilling end of the season, Tokunbo Adodo, Portfolio Manager, National Premium, Nigerian Breweries said the experiential participation of football fans at the final match in Enugu supports the brand’s commitment in driving audience venue participation.
The 2016/17 league season will commence in early 2017 and Star’s partnership with NPFL will continue to bring premium quality football excitement to fans and the twenty clubs competing for the league title.