•Abandon 2 victims By Christopher Oji Less than six months after hoodlums stormed Babington Macaulay Junior Seminary School in Ikorodu, a suburb of Lagos, abducting three female students, it was the turn of Lagos Model College, Igbonla, Epe yesterday when they kidnapped four students, their Vice Principal and teacher.
The gunmen stormed the school at about 7.45am in three speed boats.
The students were observing their morning assembly, when they were abducted. The armed men marched them through the bush path and escaped in their boats through Ogbere River.
On September 17, four landlords were kidnapped in Isheri, a boundary town between Lagos and Ogun states.
They were having a walk-out when about eight gunmen stormed the area and took them away. The victims were released after four days in captivity. Mr Abba Kyari of the Inspector General of Police Special Task Force arrested four suspects.
But yesterday, the kidnappers abandoned two students, who were later rescued in the creek.
A student told investigators that the hoodlums came through the gate: ”They met us during our morning prayers. They were armed with  sophisticated weapons and when we saw them, we ran helter skelter. We later discovered that our teachers and four students were taken away.
“We later heard that two of our colleagues have been released.”
A Police source told Daily Sun that the kidnappers scaled through the fence.
He said: “Our preliminary investigation showed that the kidnappers came through the Ogbere River. There were two groups in three speedboats. Some were left to guard the boat while others entered the school.
“When they took the victims away, they abandoned two students and went away with four others. They took them away through the Ogbere River. We are going after them. We discovered that one of the abducted teachers, Lukman, is the elder brother to slain former aide to Edo State Governor Adams Oshiomhole, Olaintan Ayorinde
“As it is, we are trailing them. The Marine Police and other sister agencies are after them”, he noted.
The Commissioner of Police Mr Fatai Owoseni, said:”At about 8am, kidnappers stormed a Model school in Epe and abducted four students, the vice principal and a teacher. It was an unfortunate incident. We have rescued two of the students and we are after the kidnappers.
“The Marine Police, the Navy and Directorate of State Services (DSS) are after the hoodlums. We are monitoring them and we will soon rescue the victims,” he said.
On March 1, 2016, hoodlums stormed Babington Macaulay College, Ikorodu and whisked away three students. The students were later released after and alleged N5.3million ransom was paid.
Six months after, four landlords were abducted at Oshorun Heritage estate in Isheri area.
The victims had gone to a recreation centre beside Lekki Gardens Estate which shares boundary with Warewu and Wawa creeks in Ogun State.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 