“Dear Prof. Protus, kindly publish this testimony that I am sharing with you but don’t disclose my details please. I was born into a polygamous family my daddy never loved my mother; though she has her frailties. When my father brought in the second wife, life became very difficult to the extent that it became difficult for me to go to school. But as God may have it I struggled and went to school and graduated. The second wife of my dad became our problem. She stole the heart of my daddy that he hardly had time for us. My mother became a witch as she alleged and my father believed her and dealt with my mother treacherously. As God may have it, I succeeded in getting married and on the day of our traditional wedding, my little hand bag which my younger sister (from the second wife) was holding for me got missing; my passport photo and money together with few other things were in it. After the traditional marriage, I started having serious problems with my husband. Nothing I did pleased him, he was not interested in me anymore; he stopped eating my food and fought with me always. The problem continued and he left me in Nigeria and travelled abroad, I was made to face the greatest temptation of my time. I was going from one church to another. All they could tell me was that my step-mother was responsible for my problems. I did all I was asked to do yet no solution came. I spent a lot of money yet I got no solution. I did not see my husband for five to six years but my mother in-law kept me and took care of me. One day I read your column and contacted my mother in law and she called you from Onitsha after listening to her, you asked us to order three bottles of your oil and pray with it. As God may have it, we got the oil and did the prayer as you directed. Six days later, my brother called me from my village to inform me that my step-mother woke up from sleep and started crying and confessed to her husband what she did with that my little bag that disappeared on my traditional wedding day. My father refused to disclose what she confessed to her as she passed on after that. God finally did it that my husband called me and came back to Nigeria and everything is fine now. I can’t thank God enough for what he used you to do in my family. God bless you”. (Names and contact withheld).
I have severally attempted to search deeper into the spirituality of our Lord Jesus Christ as a child, I have also finally come to the recognition that some information that could assist any sincere believer in this regard (except the Bible) are all hidden. Thus, I have continued to ask, why is it that the oldest libraries in the world, are secret libraries? What are people really afraid of? Are they worried that the so called ‘truth’, protected and concealed for so many thousands of years will finally come to light?
A little time from now, when the arch-angels trumpet shall sound, many religious wisdom and knowledge shall be found to be in total error, because some sons of God shall all be ruptured into the spiritual library of golden truth. This as a new birth of spirituality shall make religion obsolete as core spirituality becomes the doxology of the saints. This can only occur if mankind decides to be in matrimony with proper research leading to the core abode of Christian spirituality.
Research and progress into Christian spirituality (not religiosity) should not be held back. At this point and due to what I may call misunderstanding and misapplication of truth leading to “the priest cover up” and in view of the topsy-turvy of modern spiritual reality, one may be tempted to doubt some accepted religious pattern of thought (creed and credo) or working hypothesis. So many things have gone wrong in Christendom.
Yes, we indeed need to question them because if existing ideas are not questioned, research is at end. Yes, if new research comes up and is authentic, the old working hypothesis, however familiar it may have become must be replaced by a new one. This may lead to serious war because no religious leader would want his political cum ecclesiastical economic kingdom to be pulled down.
As a matter of fact, the hour has come to introduce spirituality at the very center of our religious faith. The time has come for our pope, cardinals, bishops, reverend, pastors, prophets, apostles, evangelist, Christian spiritual masters to mention only a few to admit their inadequacies in making proper discoveries in the infinite spiritual dimension of religion. Only then shall we realize that we are only but infinite spiritual beings whose worship of the universal cause must be in spirit and in truth. Our future and great opportunities lie in the true knowledge of spirituality.
All those with various religious titles whose lives are bereft of spirituality should all be called to question. Our growth depends on our marriage with spirituality.
Religion is like a sign-post pointing or leading to spirituality, but when people get to the sign –post, they rest and finally situate there. Majority have finally ended up at religious homes without making any frank effort to locate spirituality. As a result of the above, religion has buried the knowledge of spirituality in the barren soil of our church organizations thereby acting a superior drama to confide its adherents that they are at the right place. But the superiority of religion over spirituality is only for a moment!
Due to this great misplacement, emotionality has hitherto replaced spirituality in our various conceptual temples. It is a fact to state here that the daily increase of science and technology in the twenty first century has indeed helped to bring religion especially Christian religion to the door post of every home. This great effort must be appreciated, but is still incapable of making man spiritual.