BY JOE APU Nigeria and Watford of England striker, Isaac Success on Saturday gave a glimpse of what Nigerians should expect of him when the Super Eagles take on the Chipolopolo of Zambia in the Russia 2018 World Cup qualifier as he scored in the 65th minute of play to level up for his team to secure a point in their 2-2 draw against visiting Boutnemouth.
Success delivered after coming from the bench to score his first Watford goal and earn a point against Bournemouth.
If this cameo is anything to go by, Isaac Success has every chance of living up to his name. The 20-year-old forward is yet to start for Walter Mazzarri due to a lack of fitness since signing from Granada for £12.5million in the summer, but Watford could have quite the player on their hands when the Nigerian is one hundred per cent.
‘Success has always played very well when he’s come in,’ Mazzarri said. ‘The only thing he needs is more continuity and to help the team. Strikers need to run up and down the whole pitch and help the team, this is what he needs to understand. If he gets this he’ll be one of the most important strikers we have.’
Meanwhile, Chelsea stopped the rot after successive Premier League defeats as they ground down Hull at the KCOM Stadium.
The hosts enjoyed the better of a cagey first half but went behind when Willian swept home a curling shot after good work from Diego Costa after the break.
Costa found the top corner with a similar strike to double the lead after Nemanja Matic’s powerful run.
Hull never recovered and could have been further behind but for Pedro’s poor finishing from six yards.
Chelsea manager Antonio Conte promised “a solution” after his side went down with a whimper against Arsenal last weekend and he found his answer in a strategy he used at former club Juventus.
The Italian employed a three-man defence during much of this trophy-filled time in Turin and deployed Gary Cahill, David Luiz and Cesar Azpilicueta at the back as he organised his Chelsea rearguard to match.
It did not initially appear to have stabilised a side who had conceded nine goals in their last four games in all competitions.
Luiz lost track of Dieumerci Mbokani as he apparently struggled with the extra space he and his team-mates had to cover and was fortunate that the Hull striker’s control betrayed him.
But the defence, along with the team as a whole, improved markedly after half-time and never looked like blemishing only their second clean sheet of the season. 