Senator Ali Wakili is the Chairman Senate Committee on Poverty Alleviation in the Senate. In this interview with PAUL ORUDE in Bauchi, Wakili bares his mind on some of the policies of the current administration that border on poverty alleviation, with a verdict that Nigerians are indeed going through hell at the moment. Who do you think are the main beneficiaries of the N5,000 monthly social benefit promised by the Federal Government?
Let me first correct the impression. President Buhari never promised that he will give each unemployed youth a sum of N5,000. What he promised was that some vulnerable Nigerians are going to benefit from a token fee of N5, 000 out of the N500 billion approved for social benefit in the country. The social benefit fund which is the N500 billion encompasses so many programmes like the 500 teachers under the empowerment condition fund transfer, the school feeding and so on. The Federal Government is committed to all these programmes but you know that we are living in trying times, you can see that the revenue situation has not been very encouraging. Thus, the implementation of all these laudable projects depends on the fact that large sum of money comes to the federal treasury. How far has the President gone in the fight against corruption?
When President Buhari began his campaign, one of his cardinal principles was to do away with corruption, and you have seen his determination to do away with corruption. You have seen the various reports coming out of the security fund, the campaign funds among others. You have also seen people that seem to be above the law being questioned. He is determined to tackle corrupt practices, and you have to determine it through transparency and accountability that is if you have to do away with it on a permanent basis, I think the President’s fight against corruption is very commendable. Many reputable companies are folding up and laying-off their workers. It was reported recently that over five million Nigerians have lost their jobs since the inception of this administration, what is the implication of this on the image of the country?
The implication is, it’s very obvious that people are suffering; that our security is being threatened; that tension will continue to abound within the country. But I don’t know where you got this statistics. Sometimes, these statistics are very bogus, may be it came from those from the opposition camp to blackmail APC. I don’t know the veracity of this five million but what I know is that it is not within the last 18 calendar months that this has happened. These are accumulated effects of bad governance. The way out is for me and you to ensure that there is good governance, to ensure that there is transparency and accountability in the running of the affairs of the country. The way out is to ensure that we diversify our economy so that local industries are really local industries, not a situation where you import 95 percent raw materials and you come and add 5 percent value and you said you are running a local industry. That is part of our problem. Recently, Governor Mohammed Abubakar alleged that National Assembly members from Bauchi State are fighting him because he turned down their request to purchase exotic cars and houses for them, how true is this?
It’s very unfortunate and very scandalous that such statement is coming from the chief executive who is expected to be more careful than all of us because whatever he says can trigger a chain of reactions.  Unfortunately, I have said it before, if the sender of the message is deranged, the recipients of the message are in control of their senses, where had it ever happened in any state that governors would purchase houses for legislators? We learnt that during the first and second tenures of former Governor Adamu Muazu, in line with his inclusiveness, he bought certain vehicles for the legislators. We also learnt that during the first term of Isa Yuguda, he bought vehicles for the legislators but we have not even heard where they bought houses. I have said it, that on my own, I have never discussed any issue of any exotic car with the governor of Bauchi State, I have never  either alone or in consultation with the caucus, requested for house from the governor of Bauchi State. That is his way of blackmailing us and it’s very unfortunate. Our problem with the governor hinges on our demand for good governance, whether we like or we don’t like it, it’s not only those of us at the National Assembly that are pelting the governor, if you go through the messages, out of the 36 state governors, how many of them are being pelted around? We all came on a popular trend. Certainly,  what we are saying is that we should be accountable, let the resources of Bauchi State be used for the well-being of the people of Bauchi State.
I was the one that printed the quantum of money that Isa Yuguda in his eight years received from the federation account both for the state and local government cou. I was the one that gave it to Barrister M.A Abubakar. When we were campaigning, we promised that if by the grace of God we were elected, we were going to ensure that we have a democratic local government system in place and that we were going to channel all local government funds directly into the local government. Unfortunately, the governor has reneged on that. He constituted a caretaker committee without our consultation, if all of us are stakeholders, this caretaker must be constituted in consultation with us, we are the critical stakeholders. Secondly, our quarrel with him is that, his words are not his honour, I was one of those that championed his nomination and I worked and God granted our request. When we were campaigning, there were certain promises we made to our party members immediately we got the nomination, there was a little bit of gambling, when I accosted him, he says, these are political promises, because of my moral and religious upbringing, I rejected it. Thirdly, we promised that we will not tamper with the district heads created and the armlets created by the administration of Isa Yuguda, suddenly, as at today, these people have been chased out, When we complained, he said it was the opposition in the Assembly that sponsored the bill. He even said that he did not sign it. How can a House of  Assembly of about 31 members, with 29 of them coming from the ruling party have a bill sponsored by the opposition and you as a governor from a ruling party did not accent to it. We are daily alienated from the fellowship of the party.  For example, from Tafawa Balewa local government where I come from, 70 of these village heads are affected. You are deviating from the promises of the party. Traditional and religious leaders are very vital in the politics of Bauchi State. They are the ones on the pulpit who can preach this change. What is your reaction to the withdrawal of forgery charges against the Senate President and his Deputy?
That is the rule of law, it is in their discretion to say they are pressing charges, and it is also the discretion of the court to decide. If out of their own wisdom, they discover that something is wrong somewhere, so be it. Recently, there were speculations that the Governor earmarked projects that sidelined the people of your constituency, what is your take on this?
I will not descend to the level of the governor. If I speak on this issue, it’s cheap blackmail, Kirfi, Alkaleri and Ganjuwa, and other constituencies there is nothing there, so I will buy that. Are you speaking for yourself or on behalf of the National Assembly members from Bauchi?
You are speaking to me as Mallam Ali Wakili, you are not speaking to me as a member of Bauchi caucus, but whatever I say in their defence I am speaking on their behalf, I have said that neither I nor any one of them had requested for such things during  our vameeting. I want to challenge the governor to come out with  the letter that we presented to him which contains the 16 issues we discussed with him, if the issues of vehicles and houses are there, we gave him a written document, even what we gave the President and the party were in written form, so he should provide it so that we can crosscheck and see if any personal issues have been brought, there must be decency even when we are playing politics. 