 By Grace Alegba Lagos, Oct. 7, 2016 (NAN) The picketing efforts of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) yielded fruits on Friday as workers of Hello Products formerly called Jagal Pharma Ltd. in Lagos joined the union. The integration was made when hundreds of NLC members marched to the company’s factory in Jagal Close, Oregun, during a rally to observe the “Decent Work Day’’. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Decent Work Day is an annual global programme which holds on Oct. 7 for protesting employers’ unwholesome labour practices. NLC members demanded that all workers of the company should come out of the factory and administrative blocks. Some of the factory workers had informed the NLC members on arrival that the company paid them N1,000 daily for working for 12 hours. The workers also told the union that they worked compulsorily on Saturdays and Sundays, and that they were not allowed to belong to any trade union. After chanting solidarity songs and dancing round the premises, the union members demanded that the management of the company should address them. However, the Managing Director of the firm, Mr Chedli Ben Frija, did not address the labour union. He said that the company’s accountant simply identified as Mr Kingsley should perform the role. After an argument between Kingsley and some labour leaders, the accountant said that he could not say anything. The NLC members waited for almost an hour but no management staff addressed them. “If I am to be honest, they (NLC) were coercing the Managing Director,’` Kingsley had said. Later, Comrade Ismail Bello, the Deputy General Secretary of the Textile Workers’ Union, addressed the factory workers and inaugurated the branch. “Whether you are casual or permanent workers, this congress ratifies your membership,’’ he said. He assured them that no worker would be victimised for joining the union. He said that the workers had the right to belong to the association. Bello then proceeded to collect names and phone numbers of all the factory workers, promising that the union would protect them and monitor their progress. Mr Adenuga Olusola, the newly inaugurated chairman of Hello Products, said that he had worked as a casual staff of the company for six years. “A lot of us are purely casual and I am happy with this election,“ he told NAN. At Daily Independent Newspapers, the union demanded that the management should reinstate workers sacked for demanding to be paid their 22 months’ salary arrears. Mr Idowu Adelakun, Lagos NLC Chairman, told NAN that the picketing was a warning for firms to do the right thing. Adelakun said that the issue of Daily Independent Newspapers will not be laid to rest until the sacked workers got justice. “In labour law, there are ways to recruit and disengage workers; we will not accept a situation where workers are sacked for demanding their rights. “We are going to map out strategies to follow up on monthly basis to continue picketing these companies,“ he said. The union also picketed the Regal Plastic Industries Ltd in Oregun where workers were assured of their rights under the International Labour Laws. The protesters carried placards with various inscriptions, “Say no to Casual Work“, “Union Membership, Workers’ Right’’, ‘’Stop Precarious Work’’. The NLC members marched from Acme Road through Alausa to Oregun Industrial Estate, carrying banners. (NAN)