From Chuks Onuoha, Onuoha Abia State Police Command has paraded a 65-year-old man, Emeka Asibironwu, for allegedly defiling a two-year-old girl.  The victim was kept under the suspect’s custody.
The suspect is from Oriendu Autonomous Community in Umuahia North Local Government Area of the state.
He was arrested on September 28, 2016 by operatives of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC), and handed over to the police.
Speaking in Umuahia while parading the suspect and other suspected criminals, Commissioner of Police (CP), Leye Oyebade  said  the suspect was arrested following an alarm raised by the victim’s mother when she saw her  crying while blood and fluid were gushing out of her private part.
However, the suspect denied the allegation and said he was in his house on the night when the victim’s mother and his co-tenant raised the alarm and accused him of defiling her baby. The suspect, who said he was yet to marry, swore he did not observe any blood or fluid coming out from the victim’s part.
The police said the baby is on admission, in an undisclosed hospital and that the suspect would soon be arraigned for defilement.
Oyebade also paraded suspected car snatchers whose ring leader, Kelechi, a final year student of a tertiary institution in the state, allegedly killed  police Sergeant, Nkanu Ogor, in Aba.
He said the gang had, on October 7, snatched a Toyota Highlander from the owner at Finbarrs Road, Umuahia, but later abandoned it on Ikot Ekpene Road, in the state capital following a hot chase by the police.
He said two members of the gang, who sustained bullet wounds, during exchange of fire, later died at the hospital while other members who escaped were later apprehended.
Items recovered from the suspects were one Toyota Highlander marked JJJ 872 CX, black Mercedes Benz with registration number AG 467 NEM, one AK 47 riffle, one locally- made pistol, mask and vehicle plate numbers.
In an interview, one of the suspects, Chukwu Chimezie from Arondizogu in Imo State, confessed to the crime and said he fled when their car somersaulted along Ikot Ekpene Road following a hot pursuit by the police but was later arrested.
The CP  also paraded Emmanuel Effiong, 20, who was alleged to have killed a woman, severed the head and later dumped her headless body in Aba River. 