From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole said he was  not the type that would breath down the neck of his successor or worry over being betrayed by Godwin Obaseki, (the Edo State governor-elect) when he leaves office next month.
Obaseki won the September governorship election in Edo State.
Oshiomhole was asked if he was not worried he might fall out with Obaseki in future as had been the case in some states, where former governors are not in good term with their successors.
Oshiomhole, who said he was in the President Villa, to invite President Muhammadu Buhari to commission some impacting projects his administration has put in place including state of the art hospital, said Obaseki’s allegiance should be to the people not him.
“I am not the state, I am only one out of about four million Edo people. So, his obligation and loyalty should be to the people of Edo State. The oath of office he is going to subscribe to says he will defend the constitution of Nigeria,  he will do everything to uplift the quality of life of Edo people. Nothing in his oath of office will include, ‘I shall not betray my predecessor’, because I have no interest to be betrayed.”
Oshiomhole who leaves on November 12 said he has no regrets campaigning vigorously for Obaseki.
Asked what he would want to be remembered for, Oshiomhole said, “I want to be remembered as a factory worker who worked and laboured as a daily paid worker in the most subordinates post in textile mill rising to become leader of the textile union and eventually spending eight years as NLC president, then going back home to confront the most feared and vicious godfathers that monopolised Edo state. I fought godfathers, which is essential to make way for liberal democracy.”
On allegations that he rigged the elections, he said, “PDP lost because it could not convince the people of its legacy while in power. We did not rig the poll, else we would not have allowed our party chairman to loss his unit”.
Oshiomhole said he had no regrets in his eight years on the saddle, adding that being in his 60s, it was time to take a break and be a caring husband and father to his children.