It is already one hundred days in office for Inspector General of Police, Mr. Idris Kpotum Ibrahim.  To some watchers of the Police, the first one hundred days of IGP Ibrahim is like a new cock that is standing on one foot because it is still studying its new environment. To many others, the IGP has made some progress and should be commended for showing signs of better steps still to be taken in reshaping the Nigeria Police into an internationally acceptable security institution. It is important to note that the initial appraisal of a leader in any high office such as in the first hundred days of activities is important because it gives a sign of where such an official is heading to. It is during these early days that it can be seen whether the leader has a vision or is visionless. In appraising the IGP’ s hundred days in office, the vastness of the Nigeria Police Force that spread through the length and breath of the country must be put into consideration.  Among the areas that can be search lighted to measure where he intends to go include his policies, utterances and operational plans and output. In the eyes of members of the public, it is the operational activities of Police officers that they see on a daily bases that often form the bases for their judgement. The media and police officers on their part would score the IGP’s first hundred days based on how he has been able to improve their welfare and open up the institution to public scrutiny. Therefore, appraising the administration of the IGP is not a great task because he has taken off administratively and operationally. It can be said that he has taken off on a good note. It is these commendable and futuristic steps in administration and operational policies that make it imperative for a critical appraisal of his hundred days in office to be carried out. From available reports and evidence, the administrative initiatives of the IGP is gradually imparting positively on the entire spectrum of the Nigeria Police Force. In hundred days of IGP Ibrahim’s tenure, most departments of the Police have been positioned to embrace the new administrative policy trust of the Police leadership, which is in tandem with the present Change mantra of the government. While some view as a good omen some of the postings of officers and retention of some the IGP met on their posting, others are worried about perceived wrong reason for some of the early postings. Officers believe that much professional consideration should be put into consideration in the postings, to ensure that round peg would be posted to occupy round holes. Operationally, IGP Ibrahim has done comparably well in his hundred days in office. Many of the cases of kidnapping that occurred during his tenure have been tackled with the kidnapped being rescued as a result of Police rescue operation strategy. His Commissioners like   Muhammad  Mustapafa  of the Federal capital territory( FCT) ,Fatai Owoseni of Lagos Command, Sam Okaula of Anambra command, Taiwo Lakanu of Imo Command, Chris Ezike, formerly of Edo command, Henry Fadairo of Jigawa Command and Austin Iwar of Gombe Command have done extremely well and it can be believed that their performance is a part of the credit of the IGP as he has been able to show extraordinary leadership qualities. Now that the Edo State governorship election is over and the election politics has played itself out, one hopes that such a fine and dedicated officer as Chris Ezike can be allowed to continue his good work as CP in his Command. Dedicated officers should not be sacrificed for politicians in their win at all cost mentality. A good leader listens and addresses issues of concern to the people he is constitutionally appointed to provide security for. IGP Ibrahim has shown early signs of doing well in this area. For instance, a report by the Amnesty International lambasted the police for some human rights abuse incidents. immediately The IGP responded immediately and announced the creation of a Complaints Response Unit and a reform initiative for the SARS,also in response to public concerns about alleged violations by police officers across the country. When this is added to the Anti-Torture Bill – intended to prohibit and criminalize the use of torture which was passed by Parliament in June, the society will surely have less report of police brutality. These are indications of pro-activeness and effort to have best world standards in Policing. Steps of this nature are reassuring that the new cock has finally put down its leg to walk and work. As an experienced officer with years of being Mobile Police Squadron commander, IGP Ibrahim has at last been able to put a stop to the undignified use of Mobile Police officers as ordinary body guard and gate men of politicians and business men. By restoring the past glory of the Mobile Police, Idris Ibrahim should be commended. He should go on and stop the practice in the Force where officers who mistakenly cross the path of their seniors are sentenced to “Siberia” which is Police College.This should be stopped. It is not only discouraging; it debases the moral of the officers. The IGP should take the lead. The truth is that when you transfer an officer to Police College as a punitive measure, what you are inadvertently doing is posting a man full of angry venom to impart knowledge on recruits. The result is easily seen in the public. When a leader listens to the complaint of his subjects, he adds to his understanding and such a leader is always appreciated. Leaders that take up office with wrong mind set turn out to be worse off. The cry of the Nigeria Police is for a transparent leader who is not biased but firm; who is not an ethnic champion but nationalistic, purposeful and friendly; one that is determined to raise the standard of Policing by   instilling discipline across board. Policing around the world is all about discipline, dedication and determination to stop criminals in the society and living above the law. However few the good steps so far taken by IGP Ibrahim are, the fact that his confirmation came very fast means that in the eyes of his master, the Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari, he has impressed him with his operational and administrative policies. Nigerians hope that Idris Ibrahim will fasten his belt and take off more aggressively in tackling the many problems in the society waiting for police attention. The problems are many; fighting robbers, dislodging kidnappers, flushing murderous cattle headsmen off villages and roads and providing adequate security for ************************ 