Pillar of Sports, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu took a lap of honour in his country home following Enugu Rangers league triumph describing it as one of his happiest moments.
Kalu hailed the Flying Antelopes for restoring the team’s lost glory and giving their legion of admirers something to hold on to after so many years of missed opportunities.
He said: “My love for Rangers is evergreen. They meant everything to many of us in the mid 1970s. A team that was unbeaten for almost two years. They won the hearts of so many Nigerians, not just the Igbo. I am so happy today, I am enjoying one of my best moments right now. Perhaps many do not know that legendary Shooting Stars sponsor, Chief Lekan Salami, was also a lover of the Flying Antelopes. Sportswriter, Tunde Osuntolu (Esbee), promised to donate his December 1975 salary if they won that year’s Champions League.”
The former Abia State governor who led Enyimba to CAF Champions League glory in 2003 and 2004 respectively advised Rangers officials to start preparing for the 2017 Champions League immediately in order to assume their rightful position as one of Africa’s most supported teams. … Plateau United, Heartland game abandoned The NPFL final day match between Plateau United and Heartland at the Rwang Pam Stadium in Jos was abandoned with 20 minutes left on the clock, according to officials.
Heartland spokesman Cajetan Nkwopara claimed the home team’s fans invaded the pitch 20 minutes from time when his club scored a second goal.
However, another version of the story said the Heartland goal was not recorded and so the Owerri club refused to continue with the game.
Before that incident, scores were tied at 1-1, which was what the league’s official Twitter account reported, while marking it as inconclusive.
Heartland need to win that match to stand any chance of escaping relegation.
They are neck-and-neck with MFM FC and Warri Wolves in this relegation dog fight.
Ten-man MFM won their home match 1-0 against FC IfeanyiUbah and Warri Wolves were also 1-0 winners at home against Ikorodu United. 