Gilbert Ekezie President of Southern Youth Development Forum, Pastor Bassey James, has called for urgent prayers for the quick recovery of the Chief of Staff to president Muhammed Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, and other Nigerians who are infected with the pandemic Coronavirus. Speaking at in Lagos in company of other concerned clerics who joined him for the special prayers, he said that some clerics had commenced intercessory prayers for the Abba Kyari and other victims of Coronavirus in the country, shortly after media reports confirmed that they have been tested positive to the killer diseases. James who is also the General Overseer of Royal House of Faith, said the prayer becomes necessary because Kyari has rendered selfless services to the country and has committed himself  to the progress of Nigeria, while serving President Buhari, with unbroken loyalty. “We have mobilized ministers across the nation to pray for Abba Kyari’s quick recovery. On this premise, I urge all Nigerians to pray and equally be hopeful because Kyari is at the moment receiving medical attention in a specialized facility in the country.” James also commended the Lagos State government for its prompt action in providing  ideal  isolation centers for the treatment Coronavirus at a time the entire world lives in dread of the strange disease. He also advised the President Buhari and the entire Nigerians to remain calm, as ‘God would intervene and save the country from the pandemic. In the same vain, a Chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Alhaji Ali Gambo also said he is mobilizing muslims, clerics and other Nigerians to join the special prayers for Kyari and other Nigerians who are already infected by the virus. “Abba Kyari has been a strong muslim, who has put in so much for the well-being of the Nigeria project. Therefore, I urge every Nigerian to support him and other infected person, with their prayers at this point in time. Also speaking, a clearing and forwarding mogul and one of the coordinators of the prayer movement from the south east, Elder Uche Idechukwuka appealed to Nigerians pray harder, and not to politicize the corona virus issue. “The time has come for all Nigeria to genuinely unite and rise above partisan politics. We need to use this opportunity to learn our lessons.” 