 From Uche Usim, Abuja Central Bank Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has expressed gratitude to God, President Muhammadu Buhari and security agencies for the rescue of his wife, Margaret, from the hands of kidnappers.
He was however silent on whether any ransom was paid to secure her release.
Mrs Emefiele was abducted last Thursday by kidnappers along Agbor-Benin road and taken to an unknown destination.  Emefiele, in a statement yesterday, said his joy knew no bounds when the news of his wife’s rescue reached him Friday night.
He praised security agencies for their gallantry in bringing his wife back home within 24 hours in compliance with the directive of President Buhari. He also expressed his gratitude to the Delta and Edo State governments, friends and well wishers who through their actions, prayers and goodwill, helped to bring the harrowing experience to a joyful end.
He reaffirmed his resolve to continue to serve the nation diligently and with all his heart without any fear of intimidation.
Mrs Emefiele’s kidnapper‎s had initially demanded N100 million as ransom for her release but increased it to N1.2 billion when they discovered she was a ‘big catch.’ Delta police in the dark about Mrs. Emefiele’s rescue From PAUL OSUYI, Asaba The Delta State Police Command are still in the dark about the kidnap and subsequent rescue of Mrs. Margaret Emefiele, wife of the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele.
Mrs. Emefiele was kidnapped on Thursday afternoon around Ugoneki community along the Benin-Asaba-Onitsha expressway while on her way to Agbor from the Benin Airport where she landed from Abuja.
Security operatives were said to have rescued her on Friday night within the bushes of Ugoneki in Edo State, and she was recuperating at the Government House, Asaba, Delta State.
But investigation by Sunday Sun revealed that the victim was not taken to Asaba after rescue as credible sources within Government House said Mrs. Emefiele was not there.
This is even as the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Mr. Charles Ehiedu Aniagwu, told Sunday Sun that he was not aware of the presence of the rescued Mrs. Emefiele in Government House.
Besides, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr. Zanna Ibrahim told our correspondent on phone that the Command was still unaware about the kidnap and subsequent rescue of the CBN governor’s wife.
Ibrahim, who doubted if the kidnap actually took place, stated that if it happened, it was outside the jurisdiction of his command, adding that even the neighbouring Edo State Command did not call for reinforcement from Delta in the rescue operation. But a dependable source in the Delta State Command of the Department of State Service (DSS) confirmed the rescue operation, saying that though he was not part of the rescue team, men of the Command participated in the operation. The DSS official said: “I can’t give you details for now because I was not part of that operation but our men were part of the security team that went for the rescue operation. I was outside the state for another assignment.
“I came back today and I am yet to get to the office as we speak because I was assigned to another duty here in Asaba. Until I get to the office to find out what actually happened, I will not be able to give you details.”
Investigation, however, revealed that operatives from the Zone 5 headquarters of the Nigeria Police Force, Benin City led the rescue operation. It was further learnt that after the successful rescue operation, the high profile citizen was taken to the Zone 5 headquarters in Benin City where she re-united with family members.