By Maduka Nweke As part of its campaign to promote Insurance Education and Awareness in Nigeria the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) recently visited Kano state and donated some books.
Lady Isioma Chukwuma, the CIIN President said the campaign forms part of the Institute’s statutory functions as enshrined in Act No 22 of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in February, 1993. The CIIN President said the Institute’s visit to Kano commenced with a courtesy visit to the Emir of Kano, His Highness, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II, at the Emir’s Palace, where 100 copies of the Institute’s published ‘Insurance Textbook for Secondary Schools’ were donated to the schools situated within the Emir’s Palace.
In his response, the Emir commended the Institute for the gesture and encouraged it to upscale its drive in the area of Insurance awareness creation as the industry’s penetration in Nigeria is very low compared to what obtains in other countries. He however, called on the business community especially in the northern region to embrace insurance as a matter of necessity in order to avoid total losses in the event of unforeseen occurrences.
During the campaign, the Institute also donated 400 copies of the ‘Insurance Textbook for Secondary Schools’ to the Kano State Ministry of Education which was received by the Permanent Secretary of the State Ministry of Education, Alhaji Danlami Garba.
Lady Chukwuma while making the presentation, stated that the donation was borne out of the desire of the Institute to further strengthen the teaching and study of Insurance in Nigeria. She further expressed the Institute’s desire to partner with the State Ministry of Education to train prospective insurance teachers in the state on how to effectively teach insurance at the secondary school level.
In his response, Alhaji Garba expressed the appreciation of the Kano state government and assured the Institute that the Ministry will embrace the study of insurance as a subject in its schools and also encourage students to take up the subject. He expressed the state’s commitment to partnering the Institute in training of prospective insurance teachers stating that the objective is to have at least one insurance teacher in each of the schools in the state.
In a statement by the Institute’s Director-General, Mr. Richard Olutayo Borokini, the Institute is committed to taking its insurance education and awareness drive across the federation as has been done in Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara, Edo, Rivers and Imo states.
The visit to Kano state culminated with the investiture of Mr. Mustapha Abba as the Chairman of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Kano Chapter along with other members of the Chapter executives. CIIN President, Lady Isioma Chukwuma on administering the Oath of Office to the executives charged them to offer selfless service by replicating the Institute’s programmes and events on a local level. 