Enugu community rolls out red carpet for gov From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha Stakeholders in Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area of Enugu State recently gathered in Umuida community for the civic reception of Enugu State governor, Chief Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi.
Even when Umuida is the homestead of Chief Ayogu Eze, a former senator who contested against Ugwuanyi in the elections, the people of the community have never hidden their support for the latter.
They were happy that the governor appointed one of their own, Comrade Uwakwe Ezeja, as the Transition Council Chairman of Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area, even after he had given them several other life-changing opportunities.
While welcoming the governor, Ezeja thanked him for his contributions to people of the area in the last 13 years while he was in the National Assembly, assuring him of their continued support to his government.
The Umuida community in a welcome address acknowledged that the governor, right from his days in the National Assembly had made positive impact on the lives of his constituents a development that not only qualified him for his present office but saw to the overwhelming support of the entire people of Enugu State, which culminated in his emergence as governor.
They recalled several interventionist programmes, which the governor had undertaken in the community ranging from education, rural electrification to empowerment projects.
The community also made some requests from the governor saying: “We wish to draw His Excellency’s attention to the poor state of our roads, particularly the road that links Umuida to Igbo-Eze South Local Government and Odoru-Igallamela in Kogi State. The Kogi part of the road has been almost completed while our side of the road was awarded to PW Construction Company. Umuida will forever remain grateful for His Excellency’s intervention to ensure the completion of the road project.”
The community also asked for a modern hospital and the extension of electricity to other parts of the community in addition to the building of a modern secondary school in the area.
A leader in the community, Nze Romanus Itodo, described the governor’s visit as a homecoming, recalling how in the 2011 election, he personally visited Ugwuanyi in company with Mr. Chinedu Onuh and notified him that Umuida community didn’t benefit from his transformer donations and he did not hesitate to extend the largesse to the community.
Senator representing Enugu North in the National Assembly, Chuka Utazi, in a speech described Ugwuanyi as a ‘miracle worker,’ saying that in his one year in office, he had accomplished numerous signature projects, which he had embarked upon. Utazi expressed surprise that not even the present economic meltdown could slow down the governor in his development drives.
The traditional rulers’ council of Igbo-Eze North led by its Chairman, Igwe Felix Attah and Igwe Simeon Osisi Itodo of Aji community presented a copy of the Holy Bible and Ofo (instrument of office) to the governor. The royal fathers told the governor that the gifts signified that both the physical and spiritual forces were behind him in his determined quest to make a positive impact in Enugu State.
They advised the governor not to entertain any fear but to remain steadfast in doing the right thing for posterity.
Reacting, the governor concurred that his visit to the Umuida community was a homecoming. He said he always felt at home among people of the community who had already taken him as one of their own since his political sojourn.
He noted that he had not forgotten all the support he had been enjoying among the people all the years, noting that he would continue to serve God and humanity positively.
He called for unity and peace in Igbo-Eze North, noting that peace and unity fostered development and brotherliness.
“With the gift of the Bible and Ofo you gave me today, I want to assure you that Enugu State is in the hands of God and to Him we give all the glory, thanksgiving and adoration for all we’ve been able to do in fulfilment of our promises to the people despite the prevailing economic challenges in Nigeria today. That we are succeeding where many others are failing and that we are paying salaries and attending to other needs of the workers, that Enugu State remains one of the safest in the country today, constructing roads and renovating facilities in educational and health institutions as well as electricity, among others are God’s doing and we glorify Him for that.”
The traditional ruler of Amaja community, Igwe Ignatius Idoko, described the gathering as a veritable opportunity for the people to share with the amiable governor, describing him as a man that identified with everybody irrespective of their status and prayed that he would be able take Enugu State to the next level.
Chairman of People’s Democratic Party in Igbo-Eze North, Urama Alexander, noted that the people were lucky to have Ugwuanyi as a governor at this point in time.
Ezeja in his concluding remark described  the ceremony as colourful, noting that the governor deserved to be celebrated.