The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has demanded a technically improved Super Eagles from the technical adviser, Gernort Rohr, ahead of the 2018 World Cup qualifier match against Algeria on November 12.
Apparently not satisfied with the technical depth of the Super Eagles in the 2-1 win against the Chipolopolo of Zambia in their Group B qualifier game in Ndola, the NFF technical committee, has tasked Rohr to work on the weak departments which were glaring during the match at Ndola.
A member of the committee said the Franco- German coach was told in clear terms to juggle the team to give Nigeria a formidable squad capable of beating Algeria convincingly in Uyo, to maintain the country’s lead on the group table.
“We are very glad we won the match against Zambia. It is a morale booster. The players’ confidence is high, but there is still a lot of work to do in the team. We should not be carried away by the three points. Our target is to win all our matches and drop no point on the road. We have made our observations known to the head of the technical crew, Rohr. We have been talking to him on the need to fortify the team,” the committee member who pleaded anonymity told breakingtimes.com.
Describing the Algerian team as a good side, he said the North Africans are in a tight situation after the home draw against Cameroon in their first game.
“Algeria are obviously under pressure following the draw with Cameroon, resulting in the sacking of their coach.
“They are coming to Uyo to play the game of their live. They have their back on the wall and are ready to throw everything in the match against the Super Eagles to keep any hope of qualifying from the group alive.
“We are not resting on our oars. We are working. We have the players but not yet a team. You don’t get a formidable team in a week. It requires time and positive inputs. The technical crew are working. They have the support of the NFF and the technical committee. We are optimistic Rohr will present a stronger squad against Algeria,” he said.