…Arrests 44 IPOB members in Bayelsa From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa The Joint Task Force codenamed Operation Delta Safe (ODS) said 23 human skulls in various stages of decomposition, a complete human skeleton and several other human parts were recovered during its operations in Cross River. Commander of the Joint Media Campaign Centre (JMCC), Lt. Col Olaolu Dauda said the skulls were discovered during a raid at the militants’ shrines “The shrines were destroyed as troops continued to search for the perpetrators of these heinous acts against humanity. With the clearance of these shrines, the Bakassi Strike Force has effectively been smoked out from the areas they used to hold sway. It should be noted that the senseless killing of humans for ritual purposes is sacrilegious and will not be tolerated in any form within the joint operation area,” he said. In another operation the Joint Task Force arrested 44 suspected members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) in Bayelsa State. The ODS also raided raided four militant camps of the Bakassi Strike Force in Ikot Ene Idem, Abakpa, Ikang Anam in Bakassi and Akpabuyo local government areas of Cross Rivers State. Commander of the Joint Media Campaign Centre (JMCC), Lt. Col Olaolu Dauda said the suspected IPOB members were arrested on Lakeview road along Ambition Estate, Okaka, Yenagoa. According to him, preliminary investigations indicated that they were planning to disrupt the peace by establishing IPOB in the state. “This group was planning to establish Bayelsa chapter of the banned IPOB and disrupt the peace within the joint operations area of the ODS. They were duly arrested and have been handed over to relevant authorities for further investigations. The unity of Nigeria is non-negotiable and sacrosanct, hence any unlawful gathering that will cause mayhem, threaten the unity and sovereignty of the country will not be condoned,” he said. Daudu noted that the acting commander of the ODS, Brig.-Gen. Kevin Aligbe commended members of the public for their cooperation and re-assure them and oil companies operating in the area to go about their legitimate business.